pos	tsai ming-liang's witty , wistful new film , what time is it there ? , is a temporal inquiry that shoulders its philosophical burden lightly . 
pos	you may feel compelled to watch the film twice or pick up a book on the subject . 
pos	directed by : pixote hunt , hendel butoy , eric goldberg , james algar , francis glebas , gaetan & paul brizzi conducted by : james levine composed by : ludwig van beethoven , ottorino respighi , george gershwin , dmitri shostakovich , camille saint-saens , paul dukas , sir edward elgar , igor stravinsky rated : g scripture references : 1 samuel 16 : 23 , ephesians 5 : 19 , 1 chronicles 15 : 15-16  in 1940 , walt disney released a filmed experiment .  fantasia was a blend of two art forms : classical music and animation .  while it was not immediately popular with the audiences of its day , it has since become recognized as something of a classic .  according to the program notes , it was mr . disney's intention to have fantasia be a continual work in progress .  sixty years later , thanks to the ongoing efforts of walt's nephew , a new fantasia is being released .  it was not only worth the waiting , it is evidence to just how far animation has come during the past half-decade .  with seven new sequences and one old favorite , fantasia 2000 exhibits an imagination and respect for its art form that is absent from most other feature films .  like the original , fantasia 2000 will more than likely bore the very young , although there is more narrative appeal in this newer version and the segments appear to be substantially shorter , perhaps a nod to the shorter attention span of the studio's primary audience .  ranging from the silly to the sublime , each segment is preceded by a short , humorous introduction or interstitial by a guest celebrity host , steve martin ( bowfinger ) being the first and most effective .  these are quickly forgotten as conductor james levine leads the chicago symphony orchestra through the musical program which , along with the images drawn by the disney team of animators , is thoughtfully and beautifully brought to a stunning synthesis .  fantasia 2000 is being released exclusively in the giant-screened imax theaters , making for a unique viewing experience .  there is enough variety in the program to provide something enjoyable for everyone and surely , people will exit the theaters with their own personal favorites .  for me , that would have to be the jazz age story of four unconnected and discontented people living in nyc who , unknowingly , help each other realize their dreams .  drawn in the style of caricaturist al hirschfeld and inspired by george gershwin's rhapsody in blue , the music and images are blended perfectly resulting in a product greater than the sum of its two parts .  children will like the short piece set to carnival of the animals by camille saint-saens .  here , a goofy looking flamingo irritates the rest of the flock with his yo-yo playing antics .  they will also giggle as donald duck , playing noah's assistant , tries to load the animals into the ark to the familiar strains of pomp and circumstance by sir edward elgar .   ( while the depiction is not biblically accurate , it is entertaining and might be excuse enough to familiarize ourselves with the true record by reading what is written in genesis 7 . )  a positive note is that the studio has avoided any segment which is as perversely dark as nihgt on bald mountain upon which the original film ended .  there are some images based upon fantasy such as the flying whales in respighi's pines of rome or images which have their roots in mythology such as the ethereal creatures which tell the story of nature's cycle of life , death , and rebirth in igor stravinsky's firebird suite .  but the stories they tell are uplifting , containing nothing too frightening for our younger children .  the darkest segment , spiritually speaking , actually belongs to the only holdover from the original fantasia , mickey mouse in the sorcerer's apprentice by paul dukas .  but overall , the emotions evoked from fantasia 2000 are positive ones , being full of hope and promise .  music has an impact which can be undeniably felt , capable of leading the listener to emotional peaks and inspirational highs simply not attainable through other mediums .  it is no wonder that the levites , as the priestly tribe of the old testament , were also the appointed musicians .  if fantasia 2000 is able to introduce a new audience to music which inspires and exalts , it will have done an incredible service .  
pos	it trusts the story it sets out to tell . 
pos	aggressive , bleak , and unrelenting film about an interracial couple , steve and sam ( damon jones and elexa williams respectively ) , who are viciously attacked in a parking garage one night by a gang of skinheads .  the skinheads beat steve , then force him to watch as they brutally rape his girlfriend over and over again .  when sam kills herself later that evening , steve decides that the skinheads must be taught a lesson .  waiting seven months for the thuggish skinheads to forget about the incident entirely , steve shaves his head , dresses in combat boots and suspenders , tattoos his flesh with nazi symbols , and tries to infiltrate the gang .  as he gets closer and closer to the people who committed the horrible crime against his girlfriend , he begins to learn just how vicious these people really are and starts to question his own motives for violence .  randolph kret's script , based on two real life incidents that affected not only his life but the life of the film's producer shaun hill , is an affront on violence and intolerance .  the film causes its audience to be subjected to such brutality and ignorance that one can't help but be disgusted by the events presented within .  i've seen it said that this is the film fight club should have been , but david fincher's film was trying to define a generation .  kret's film is a wake up call to a generation and his message is a powerful one .  if fincher is the kubrick of our generation , then kret is our d . w .  griffith ( thematically speaking ) .  there is not a single likable character in the film .  the skinheads are obviously the most repulsive characters in the film , not only because of their beliefs but because they are in a constant state of fury ( not just against other races but within their own circles ) .  the african-american characters in the film are constantly shown as sexually assaulting drug abusers who are always on a joyride looking for someone to accost .  even gay men get in on the act , locating the skinheads' lair and beating them severely with lead pipes and other blunt objects .  the main character steve is also unlikable because of the person he becomes just to seek out revenge .  what all of this comes down to is the simple message that violence begets violence , and the constant clashes between factions will do nothing but continue the endless cycle of violence inherent in our society .  the cast of this film is absolutely remarkable .  damon jones shows a raw energy that many actors can't seem to summon these days and his performance seems nothing less than powerful .  his initial reaction to hearing about his girlfriend's suicide is one of the most affecting scenes i have ever seen in a film .  david lee wilson , who plays ( appropriately enough ) david lee is accurately evil as the second in command skinhead who also makes extra money performing oral sex on other men ( an irony that seems lost on the other skinheads ) .  wilson's character is pure hatred and he brings out this hate perfectly .  sadly , actor dave ward , who portrays the character of crew , will not be able to follow up his excellent performance as he was the victim of a vicious act of violence himself at the hands of a fellow actor during an incident of road rage .  ward showed immense promise and he will be greatly missed .  note : it is a shame that the filmmakers had to add a disclaimer to the end of the film stating that neither they nor the musicians contributing music for the film condone racism .  the message about hatred couldn't be spelled out any more clearly than it is here , but there are those who would probably find this film much more akin to a training video than a condemnation .  there are no " winners " at the end of this film either .  no character gets his or her comeuppance and the ending leaves us almost right where we began .  where american history x had redemption for most of its characters , no such victories are in store for pariah's band of twisted souls .  it is this bleak ending that carries the film's most powerful message : the message that , despite what you may be able to momentarily do to put your own mind to rest , evil will still be with us ( and in many forms ) and there is very little than can be done to eradicate it entirely .  
neg	it takes a certain kind of horror movie to qualify as 'worse than expected , ' but ghost ship somehow manages to do exactly that . 
neg	roger ebert asks in his review of sexy beast , " who would have guessed that the most savage mad-dog frothing gangster in recent movies would be played by . . .  ben kingsley ? "  my response would be that anyone who has seen alan arkin in wait until dark , henry fonda in once upon a time in the west , or anthony hopkins in the silence of the lambs should have guessed it .  they should know that the way for a film to create a really creepy sociopath is cast someone who generally plays mild , sympathetic , or even ineffectual character roles .  the same characteristics that make an actor seem gentle in most of his roles can work in his favor when a role calls for him to be fierce and vicious .  that is the principle that works for kingsley in sexy beast .  gary " gal " dove ( played by ray winstone ) has retired from a london career of crime and is living on a luxurious villa in spain .  life has become a routine of sunning himself and relaxing .  but his paradise is about to be shattered by a one-two-punch .  the first punch is a boulder that comes rolling down the hill next to the villa .  the second punch comes from gal's past .  back in london gang boss teddy bass ( ian mcshane , tv's lovejoy ) is planning to break into a safety deposit room in a bank and he wants gal .  he sends his most rabid henchman don logan ( ben kingsley ) to fetch gal .  don will accept any decision gal makes from " yes " to " certainly . "  however , if gal says " no " don will do whatever it takes to turn it into a yes including threatening guy's ex-porn- star wife deedee ( amanda redman ) .  in the meantime don knows just how to get under everybody's skin .  kingsley makes don a compact package of fury and nastiness .  there are some serious problems in louis mellis's and david scinto's script that should have been caught before filming .  when we see the actual crime we have no idea why gal was so important to its success .  beyond an ability to use skin-diving gear , no special talents are required of him .  any local hood could have done what gal is needed for .  additionally the crime involves digging from a swimming pool to the bank vault , flooding the vault .  no only could they have let the water out of the pool and avoided the complication altogether , but there is by far too much water to be accounted for by what was in the pool .  in spite of the provocative title , the story is cliched and overly familiar .  i know i have seen all the plot elements of sexy beast in old westerns like the law and jake wade .  the story is usually of the reformed outlaw , a robert taylor type , who has hung up his guns and is trying for a life of peaceful respectability .  the old gang , however , wants to do one more job with their old buddy and sends a rabid richard widmark type to go and git ? im .  it is not a great plot .  in sexy beast even the plot twists have gray beards .  perhaps the film has a little more respectability because it was made not as a western but as a stylish british gangster film .  it is an old plot dressed up to look new .  if the plot is old , at least the style is creative .  this is director jonathan glazer's first film , but he has reputedly done some notable tv ads for guinness stout .  his style does have some unexpected touches including some very odd dream sequences .  cinematographer ivan bird uses a lot of half lit scenes .  we see one side of a person's faces .  but the other side fades into the darkness , a sort of metaphor for the half-world these characters in-habit .  half of everything that is happening is also kept hidden .  us yanks will have a hard time with some of the dialog .  at least in my theater it was difficult to make out the words with the quiet speaking , the heavy accents , and the cockney language .  sexy beast is a very and familiar minor plot lent respectability in the us by being done in what is here a still somewhat novel genre , the london crime film .  the plot may be new to british crime films , but it would be overly familiar as a western .  further respectability comes from ben kingsley's high-powered performance .  i give it a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale .  
pos	where this was lazy but enjoyable , a formula comedy redeemed by its stars , that is even lazier and far less enjoyable . 
pos	a gem of a romantic crime comedy that turns out to be clever , amusing and unpredictable . 
pos	an extraordinary dramatic experience . 
neg	what's next : " my mother the car ? " 
neg	simply doesn't have sufficient heft to justify its two-hour running time . 
neg	some elements of it really blow the big one , but other parts are decent . 
neg	my favorite memory of this show and the band was when i got together with a bunch of my friends which are nbb haters and had a big bonfire and we took a cd of their songs and the dvd of the movie and a bunch of pictures of the band members and threw them into the fire and danced a happy jig around the burning stuff while singing " ding dong the witch is dead " . that was the best thing about the show and this show is stupid with a capitol god this show sucks . i hate it so much . get rid of the crappy car . you guys really suck ! you really ruined the whole channel ! no offence or anything but you guys need to get a life , i mean , really , who makes a stupid show with a stupid lead singer that ca n't even sing ! you guys really sound horrible and need to get a life as hobos or something , except roselina . she 's really pretty . but still , you guys reak !
neg	[two] fairly dull -- contrasting and interlocking stories about miserable scandinavian settlers in 18th-century canada , and yuppie sailboaters in the here and now . 
neg	a sleek advert for youthful anomie that never quite equals the sum of its pretensions . 
pos	this is your standard musical comedy from the ' 30 's , with a big plus that it features some well known ' 30 's actors in small fun cameo 's . there is not much to the story and basically the movie is all about its fun and ' no - worries ' overall kind of atmosphere , with a typical hal roach comedy touch to it . appereantly it 's a ' cinderella story ' but i most certainly did n't thought of it that way while watching the movie . the story gets very muddled in into the storytelling , that features many different characters and also many small cameo appearance , when the main characters hit the hollywood studios . of course the highlight of the movie is when laurel & hardy make their appearance and show some of their routines . it 's like watching a movie and getting a laurel & hardy short with it for free . also laurel & hardy regular walter long makes an appearance in the routine and james finlayson ( without a mustache this time ) as the director of the short . it 's certainly true that all of the cameo 's and subplots distract from the main plot line and character but in this case that is no problem , since its all way more fun and interesting to watch than the main plot line and the shallow typical main character . the movie is most certainly not any worse than any of its other genre movies from the same time period , though the rating on here would suggest otherwise . 7/10
neg	sinks into the usual cafeteria goulash of fart jokes , masturbation jokes , and racist japanese jokes . 
neg	i'd be hard pressed to think of a film more cloyingly sappy than evelyn this year . 
neg	a non-mystery mystery . 
pos	its cast full of caffeinated comedy performances more than make up for its logical loopholes , which fly by so fast there's no time to think about them anyway . 
pos	it asks nothing of the audience other than to sit back and enjoy a couple of great actors hamming it up . 
pos	it uses an old-time formula , it's not terribly original and it's rather messy -- but you just have to love the big , dumb , happy movie my big fat greek wedding . 
pos	john carpenter directed this stylish and gory vampire flick to which has it's good side and it's bad .  it's held up by some good performances and dazzling special effects leading up to an ending that's pretty satisfying .  james woods gives an outstanding performance that almost covers up the movie .  the good side : some neat scenes of vampires and violence .  the bad : no scares .  yes that's right , even though being directed by one of horror's most cherished directors , 'vampires' is the least bit scary , if not at all .  james woods stars as jack a vampire hunter out to stop the plans of the 'master' vampire valek played by thomas ian griffith whom wants vampires to walk in the daylight .  daniel baldwin plays his sidekick montoya , a wise-cracking guy who really isn't that funny .  in the opening scene jack along with montoya and the team of vampire hunters , find an abandoned house to which vampire occupy .  of course we all know sunshine kills vampires , and that is just how they kill these vampires : hooking them to ropes and dragging them outside letting them burn to death .  after throwing a party for what happened , the vampires that did not die come back to trash it .  they kill almost all of jack's team , leaving only a few alive .  sheryl lee plays a prostitute katrina who was bitten by valek , but not yet turned into a vampire .  she is rescued by jack and ? flees with them on their search for valek .  they have to fight they're way against vampires , leading up to a finale that is well-done with great special effects .  'vampires' definately could have been done better .  the make-up , special effects and story are first rate , but there is no scares or terror that the film could have had .  it to me had more humor than horror , almost being compared to 'fright night' with the mix of violence and comedy .  john carpenter does a great job of directing this film .  he eases through some tough times and saves the flaws , which are noticeable but forgettable .  the script is clever and funny , with many lines that make us laugh out loud .  i much enjoyed 'vampires' with a few exceptions .  it's one of those films you see but don't take to heart .  you enjoy the time you spent and go on .  the recently released 'psycho' is the same way , it's not as good as you'd hope but it is fun and entertaining .  'vampires' is a good horror flick with no scares but plenty of other content to please the viewer .  
pos	it has the ability to offend and put off everyone , but it holds you with its outrageousness . 
pos	fans of the modern day hong kong action film finally have the worthy successor to a better tomorrow and the killer which they have been patiently waiting for . 
pos	greg kinnear gives a mesmerizing performance as a full-fledged sex addict who is in complete denial about his obsessive behavior . 
pos	seen may 19 , 1999 at 5 p . m . at the crossgates cinema 18 ( guilderland , n . y . ) , theater #1 , with my brother john for $8 . 50 .  [theater rating : * * * * : excellent seats , sound and picture]   ( critic's note : this review is the longest i've ever written and still only scratches the surface .  i'd recommend this be read only by those who have seen the film as a form of critical analysis . )  as my friend and fellow film critic ted prigge said in his review of `the phantom menace' - how do i even write this review ?  never mind the fact that i've been waiting for a new `star wars' movie since i was seven years old .  never mind the fact everyone on the internet had already dissected and discussed the movie before it was even released .  never mind that there's so much going on in this movie in terms of plot , action , special effects and long-term story that to analyze every aspect would take a lot of time and energy and still wouldn't cover everything .  and also like ted does in all of his reviews , i'll try to review this in a way different from my usual reviews and instead write as casually as possible as if i was talking directly to you , the reader .  before we can begin analyzing the specific aspects of the film , many of the most general and most significant factors must be considered ( to get the specifics of the film , skip this and the next four paragraphs ) .  as has been made obvious for the last several years , another trilogy of films will be produced to account for the [missing] initial three installments of the `star wars' series ( the first of the films was actually episode four , not one ) .  george lucas , the creator of the series , has probably just assumed most people know the first-produced trilogy ( `star wars , ' `the empire strikes back' and `return of the jedi' ) is actually the second trilogy , chronologically .  in media interviews in the past he has explained why the movies were made out of order , but i can't recall his reasons .  with this new film he as writer and director has also assumed viewers are at least vaguely familiar with the storylines and significant plot points of the first trilogy ( err . . .  second trilogy . . .  well you know what i mean ) .  and in order for this review to be thorough many of those significant points must be mentioned which , unfortunately , may serve as spoilers so proceed with caution .  [critic's note #1 : it is one my personal policy not to intentionally analyze spoilers because i would like my reviews to be able to make sense to the reader both before and after viewing the film reviewed , but it would be nearly impossible to do the film justice here without breaking the rule .  critic's note #2 : reviewing this film also breaks the universal critics' law of reviewing movies , which as roger ebert coined , `it's not what a movie is about , but how it is about it . '  because so many outside factors come into play in the film's plot and significance as part of a trilogy , and just considering modern society , it again would be difficult , if not impossible to simply review the film as a completely autonomous story . ]  first of all we have to catalog what we know about the film before even going into it .  we know that young anakin skywalker will grow up to become the evil ruler darth vader who is also the father of luke skywalker , who will lead a successful revolution against him and his empire .  we know obi-wan `ben' kenobi was the trainer of anakin in the ways of `the force' in attempts to become a jedi knight , but would fail and thus anakin would fall to the `dark side . '  we also know something about `the force' itself , that it is some kind of universal force which determines fate and can be manipulated by those whose minds are expanded enough to believe in it and feel it ( the jedi ) .  what we don't know for sure is the history of the ruling of the galaxy , which is most likely much longer and more complex than any government we have had here on earth .  to me , this was one of the most fascinating aspects of the first three films because there seemed to be a subtle , definite order to all the complexity .  also , it seems that we're supposed to be familiar with a few other details about the story which have come out of the thousands of comic books and paperbacks published in the years since the movies ended .  most notably , details regarding the emperor from `empire' and `jedi , ' and that he was once a senator and his last name is palpatine .  for those who haven't kept up with all the `star wars' paraphernalia over the years , there is still a way to know these details simply by recognizing an actor ( or his voice at least ) .  with `the phantom menace' being the first chapter of a long saga , one would assume the basic groundwork would be laid , including the history behind all the major factors of the series , especially `the force' and the jedi knights .  unfortunately , this film does more of the opposite as it simply builds on top of what must be a history so long and detailed it could never be explained .  i didn't liked that aspect to this film and is one of the reasons it falls just short of greatness .  if you're going to tell a story from the beginning - tell it from the beginning ( is it possible that after this trilogy is complete there could be another trilogy of episodes -1 through -3 to clarify the back story even further ? ) .  but i digress .  i've said so much and yet i haven't even touched on the specifics of the film itself .  all these necessary `disclaiming' elements should go to show just how vast the story of the `star wars' series is and this individual film itself .  what we get here is a movie not unlike any of the other three we've come to know and love since the late 1970s .  its similarity to the other films helps to keep the spirit of the series familiar , but at the same time seems to be a flaw in the filmmaking process itself since it sometimes rings of unoriginality .  the basic story is rather sorted , complex and even confusing at times .  we're told that an army known as `the trade federation' has set up a blockade around an seemingly insignificant planet called naboo .  we're not given too many details to clarify the back story of what the federation is and what their purpose is , instead the film opts to get its story moving quickly .  we're introduced to two jedi , the master qui-gon jinn ( neeson ) and his apprentice obi-wan kenobi ( mcgregor ) .  the two are acting as ambassadors of some sort in hopes of ending the obvious hostility between the federation and the planet's queen , amidala ( portman ) .  the leader of the federation , an alien called viceroy , is following the orders of a strange , mythical character - an older human man whose face and body are covered and shadowed by the black robe and hood he wears .  he is referred to as lord sidious but considering his appearance , and especially that creepy evil voice of his , he is a obviously one of the most significant characters in the series .  sidious communicates to viceroy only through digital transmissions and never in person .  clearly his actual whereabouts are something he wants to keep secret because that would also reveal his identity ( which is never openly revealed in the film , but should be clear to most viewers .  i have a feeling we'll delve into his background in the next two films ) .  but it doesn't take the film long to spring into action and within minutes our hero jedi are fighting for their lives and the film's story begins to move along .  the film doesn't have one specific plot and works in the same manner as the other films in the series where as what we get is one mini-plot and adventure on top of another .  there are so many of these mini-plots-within-plots in this film i would not describe them all because it is what gives the movie its hook .  the other films have relied on this type of storytelling , but because of the limits of the technology at the time , the films' screenplays were also limiting .  the sense of limitlessness here is what gives `the phantom menace' its unique traits .  as we already know , the film takes place at least a generation or two before the original `star wars' trilogy which means a lot of the background which was unclear and/or unexplained may be cleared up here as it is the beginning of the vast epic story .  and here the most significant storyline is that involving the discovery of 10-year-old anakin skywalker ( lloyd ) , by qui-gon jinn and his introduction to the jedi council .  to briefly summarize the story , jinn stumbles upon skywalker in an attempt to buy parts for queen amidala's spaceship which was damaged in efforts to free her from the federation .  their meeting on tatooine is mostly chance but of course jinn chalks it up to the will of the force .  jinn can feel that skywalker has a great natural power in the force , and through another sub-plot involving a bet on skywalker in a fantastic race he will enter , more and more details of his significance begin to reveal themselves .  this also provides for a new elaboration and explanation of the force which has never been mentioned before .  in fact , it seems to be something so important it is upsetting it has never been mentioned before .  the element seriously undermines the mystical aspect of the force and transforms it into something more physical and scientific which is completely unnecessary .  by the film's third act all the major significant elements become tied together in a rather familiar execution of the plot .  it's funny how the reality of the `star wars' world seems so embedded in mythology , new age-like philosophy and religion and yet the solution to all the major conflicts in the series has been violence .  not that this technique hasn't been used in movies and in real-life situations countless times throughout history .  and at least it's all in the spirit of the ultimate powers of good versus evil in a fun and exciting matter .  it does border of the cartoonish sometimes , but that's just the film appealing to our inner child , which is the basic reason the entire saga exists and has become such a big part of our modern society .  `the phantom menace' delivers exactly what you'd expect from a `star wars' film which is why it succeeds as well as it does but is always why it never truly achieves greatness .  so many things in the film we've seen before and done with more heart because the filmmakers concentrated just a bit more on story and character because they were limited .  but this film is far from bad because it at least embraces the spirit of sheer fun at the movies .  
neg	it's sweet , harmless , dumb , occasionally funny and about as compelling as a fishing show . 
pos	a lot of people do n't think branagh 's hamlet film is all that good , but i must admit i think it is splendid . like virtually every production of shakespeare , it has problems and it has had to make hard choices , not all of which work out . the thing about the " secret doors everywhere " , for instance , simply does n't work . that element never achieves the ominous feeling of metaphor or analogy that it attempts to , which results in the play being too gaudy and losing its trademark sense of a thousand mysteries looming . this is the biggest problem with this production . and while it 's a biggie , i 'm also inclined to say that it 's the only problem . almost everything else works out absolutely beautifully . all right , so branagh is a mite too old for the title role . and the relationship with ophelia seems a little forced . and he gets too hysterical at times . but that 's it . no other complaints . even with these faults , i think this version is a seminal one , and if it 's not as powerful a drama as it ought to be , it 's every bit the literary work that it equally ought to be . we get the complete text of the longest version of the play , innovatively and expensively brought to the screen , mostly enunciated in perfect and modern and highly understandable voices - even if they sometimes speak too quickly in order to get the massive text over with . but in a staging of shakespeare , it simply is not possible to speak slowly enough for the audience to really appreciate the full depths of the language . for that , one must delve into the print versions of the plays . all the actors of this version are simply mesmerizing and utterly and instantly classic ( incl . jack lemmon ) . julie christie as gertrude is surely one of the best ever , and even the american actors are astounding , esp . charlton heston as the player king - who would have thought it ? ! ( a story is going around that heston once played hamlet on stage , and when a critic in the front row could n't stand his hammy acting and said out loud , " this is terrible ! " , heston reportedly retorted right from the stage : " well , i did n't write this crap ! " of course it may not be true , but it 's a funny story - and if true , a bold and ironic choice for branagh to include heston here . ) robin williams as " young ozric " is perhaps not young enough for the part , but he makes it a comical one , which is warranted . overall it is a very well - produced version , with most of the key scenes being , to my mind , supremely memorable . of course , i watched this movie just as i was becoming interested in shakespeare ( and around the same time as luhrmann 's formidable romeo+juliet ) , and it made a great impression on me , which must account for some of my fondness for it . all things considered , i must pronounce branagh 's hamlet to be my favorite one , with derek jacobi 's 1980 bbc version a close second . i probably like branagh 's shakespeare work more than most , finding him an expert interpreter and popularizer , with an attractively casual attitude to the words and a deep and appropriately and unashamedly enthusiastic appreciation of the text . in the world of shakespeare acting , the two brightest luminaries remain olivier and branagh , and while olivier is the superior actor , branagh brings shakespeare down from the pedestal of snobbery and artifice , and transforms it into churlish , easy - going , populistic worldliness while compromising none of its dignity . branagh , i believe , brings out a truer shakespeare than the world has yet seen . and so , 10 out of 10 for an absolutely tremendous hamlet .
pos	a meditation on faith and madness , frailty is blood-curdling stuff . 
pos	a four star performance from kevin kline who unfortunately works with a two star script . 
neg	the overall feel is not unlike watching a glorified episode of " 7th heaven . " 
neg	as his circle of friends keeps getting smaller one of the characters in long time dead says 'i'm telling you , this is f * * * ed' . maybe he was reading the minds of the audience . 
neg	[swimfan] falls victim to sloppy plotting , an insultingly unbelievable final act and a villainess who is too crazy to be interesting . 
neg	i'm not sure which will take longer to heal : the welt on johnny knoxville's stomach from a riot-control projectile or my own tortured psyche . 
pos	don't judge this one too soon - it's a dark , gritty story but it takes off in totally unexpected directions and keeps on going . 
neg	this re-do is so dumb and so exploitative in its violence that , ironically , it becomes everything that the rather clumsy original was railing against . 
pos	[clooney's] debut can be accused of being a bit undisciplined , but it has a tremendous , offbeat sense of style and humor that suggests he was influenced by some of the filmmakers who have directed him , especially the coen brothers and steven soderbergh . 
neg	cal is an unpleasantly shallow and immature character with whom to spend 110 claustrophobic minutes . 
pos	it is an understood passion and an understood calm .  bud white walks into the home of lynn bracken , a prostitute " cut to look like veronica lake . "  he's one of l . a . 's finest investigating the murder of fellow cop , and one of the leads takes him to her home .  it's understood that he is quiet thunder , a guy who's calm voice is more powerful than his arms .  it's understood that she's supposed to be beautiful , but underneath her face is pain and scraped out lines that say her life could have been so much more .  you know without having to be told .   " you're the first guy who hasn't told me i look like veronicca lake in under a minute , " she says .   " you look ten times better . "  he says it without thinking .  like he knows without her having to say anything .  white's face doesn't turn , it doesn't blush .  you see his eyes , and you believe him .  it's a perfect moment in a near perfect movie .  l . a . confidential is the best movie of the year .  it is grace and poetry ; a richly layered work of pure entertainment .  it is a portrait of police and morality as it works it's way through characters that are so real on screen that you believe that they might have a soul .  in a phrase , it is everything .  it is funny , it is exciting , has enough action and adventure and mystery and grace and suspense .  it is the pinnacle of a movie , a complete work , a flawless film .  it's hard to tell you about the plot , because it's about so much more than plot .  besides , there's too much to describe .  sure , it's about police and searching for corruption and who fights for the right reasons and the definition of justice .  but it's also about what you feel when you look into the eyes of the characters in the film .  director curtis hanson has perfectly framed each character , letting you see into them , rooting for them one moment , doubting them the next .  the actors work with their lines , but in this movie their most important weapon is their eyes .  you can tell what each person is feeling just by looking into their eyes for one moment .  russell crowe plays bud white , a muscle cop with a beef for wife beaters .  his movements are fierce .  when he strikes , you jump , when he's calm , you know it won't be for long .  his intensity oozes out of the screen .  you follow his character through the movie afraid of him , but in sympathy of him , because you know how good his heart is .  he's looking for a way to solve crimes , you're just never sure how he's going to do it .  his counter is ed exley , played with a chisselled face by guy pierce .  you feel for him , for his character , because of all the cops in the movie he's the one that's actually trying to do the right thing by going by the book .  you know that he must face the reality of breaking the book , and you love the way he gets there .  i've seen l . a confidential twice , immediately after it was over , i wanted to hit the rewind button and watch it again .  i didn't want the theater experience to end .  it's been a long time since i actually experienced a movie , feeling like i got something after i walked out .  that's why i love movies ; the great ones can be too rich and powerful to describe .  watch l . a . confidential : after you leave the theater , you feel like you just watched a classic movie .  that's why la confidential stands as the best movie of the year .  l . a . confidential ( directed by curtis hanson .  starring russell crowe , guy pierce , kevin spacey , james cromwell , and kim basinger .  
pos	less front-loaded and more shapely than the two-hour version released here in 1990 . 
neg	the gifted crudup has the perfect face to play a handsome blank yearning to find himself , and his cipherlike personality and bad behavior would play fine if the movie knew what to do with him . 
neg	historical dramas fused with love triangle is a well worn conceit . but this films lacks the passion required to sell the material . 
neg	the package in which this fascinating -- and timely -- content comes wrapped is disappointingly generic . 
pos	miyazaki is one of world cinema's most wondrously gifted artists and storytellers . 
pos	cage makes an unusual but pleasantly haunting debut behind the camera . 
pos	it's the kind of movie that , aside from robert altman , spike lee , the coen brothers and a few others , our moviemakers don't make often enough . 
pos	it's an often-cute film but either needs more substance to fill the time or some judicious editing . 
neg	when i ponder childhood memories past , one of the things that always springs immediately to mind is watching the " inspector gadget " tv show with my older brother .  truth be told , we were rabid fanatics ; our version of cowboys and indians was chasing each other around our coffee table to the theme tune , alternating who would get to be gadget and who would be stuck playing the part of dr . claw , the inspector's arch nemesis .  i was never a biggie on nostalgia , but you just can't help but have fond memories of something like that .  sometimes i even find myself up at 4am watching re-runs of my favorite episodes , trying to recapture some of that sense of wonder i felt as a kid .  at the very least , i was expecting the new film version of the classic television series to have at least some kind of similar effect on me .  despite how horrid a film may be , the simple task of rekindling even a slight feeling of nostalgia is pretty tough to screw up .  so back i sat , with minimum expectations of what the movie would deliver ( let's face it ; exactly how good can a live-action disney film really be ? ) .  i was wise enough to steer clear from the likes of mr . magoo and george of the jungle ( two previous disney adaptations ) , and i wish to god that i had been sharp enough to skip gadget as well .  rarely has a movie left me with such an utter feeling of emptiness .  as everyone else was getting up to exit the screening room after the movie had completed its assault on mankind , i was left sitting there , absolutely speechless and totally dumbfounded at what i had just seen .  can something this awful truly exist in such an evolved world ?  right from the beginning , i knew i was in trouble .  in the opening scenes , each character is introduced as if their sole purpose is to just be , to simply serve as real-life duplicates of their cartoon clones .  when referring to them , people almost yell in fear that the audience will not catch on as to who a certain character is supposed to be ( " oh , hi penny !  is brain with you ? " ) .  creating one-dimensional replicas is one thing ; having mere names take the place of them is quite another .  the " plot " , shall we call it , stays fairly in tune with the original series .  matthew broderick stars as john brown ( how creative is that ? ) ,  a security guard who is horribly injured by a pack of ruthless businessmen headed by scolex ( why , rupert everett , for the love of god why ? ? ? ! ! ! ) , who himself is transformed into claw by an unfortunate chain of events .  brown is then rescued and used as a prototype for a new law-enforcement technology wherein he's joined with various machine parts and some nifty gadgets to form ( drumroll , please ) . . .  inspector gadget !  >from here on out , the movie becomes a hodgepodge of stupid dialog and confusing situations ( although , to be fair , my confusion could have been caused by the virtual concussion the film was inflicting upon my fragile mind ) .  there's something about an evil gadget taking over the city ( his first crime must have been swiping matt dillon's dentures from there's something about mary ) and it all ends with ( what else ? ) a bunch of post-credit nonsense and a cameo by don adams himself .  to be honest , i wasn't much paying attention to these " treats " .  i was just glad that it was over .  
neg	the only value in this movie is basically to laugh at how bad it really is . with a plot that makes your average middle - school writer look good , and acting which is almost as good , it gets my bottom score . one of tom hanks very early films where he obviously did n't have the pleasure to be real picky . the best special effect of the movie consists of a guy dressed up in an incredibly fake rubber monster consume .
pos	it leaves little doubt that kidman has become one of our best actors . 
neg	bela lugosi is great as usual but the movie is nothing compared to dracula . he is probably the only one that played a perfect part in this movie but not even a legend like lugosi could save the badness of the idea of this movie and unlike most old unspenseful horror films this movie does n't set the mood very well . even at its worst any of bela 's movies is only mediocre though .
pos	any movie that makes hard work seem heroic deserves a look . 
pos	angela gheorghiu as famous prima donna floria tosca , roberto alagna as her lover mario cavaradossi , and ruggero as the villainous , lecherous police chief scarpia , all sing beautifully and act adequately . 
neg	 . . . plays like a badly edited , 91-minute trailer ( and ) the director can't seem to get a coherent rhythm going . in fact , it doesn't even seem like she tried . 
neg	the film's stagecrafts are intimate and therefore bolder than the otherwise calculated artifice that defines and overwhelms the film's production design . 
pos	the film , despite the gratuitous cinematic distractions impressed upon it , is still good fun . 
neg	feels like pieces a bunch of other , better movies slapped together . 
neg	it is unbelievable that a script as cliché and completely absurd could make any screen even the small one . the dialogue in this movie makes catwoman seem like a high culture classic . billy zane plays the bad ass harmonica playing , elvis impersonating , gunslinging , martial arts master who gambles on the life of a down - an - out former football player turned gambling addict played by the winner of nbc 's craptastic show " next action star . " his performance is as cold as ice and not in a cool way . the " film " takes place in vegas , and since people play poker there the writers felt it was a perfect setting for a movie about a guy trying to survive 24 hours against an omnipresent , wealthy gambler who has offered his target $ 2.4 million if he can make it through the day . and so the hunt ensues . a hunt reeking with unimpressive explosions , construction yard settings , shoddy cinematography , and one - liners containing the word " bet " or " gamble . " the female winner is also tossed in the mix , but for what reason i have no idea . oh but do n't worry " nas " fans the losers make their memorable cameos as well . the surprise ending will knock your socks off if you love predictability or plagiarism . joel silver should reevaluate his decision to sell out even more . i wish he could give me those two hours of my life back .
neg	it's a deeply serious movie that cares passionately about its subject , but too often becomes ponderous in its teaching of history , or lost in the intricate connections and multiple timelines of its story . 
pos	imagine o . henry's <b>the gift of the magi</b> relocated to the scuzzy underbelly of nyc's drug scene . merry friggin' christmas ! 
neg	it's tough being a black man in america , especially when the man has taken away your car , your work-hours and denied you health insurance . 
neg	looks more like a travel-agency video targeted at people who like to ride bikes topless and roll in the mud than a worthwhile glimpse of independent-community guiding lights . 
neg	verbinski implements every hack-artist trick to give us the ooky-spookies . 
pos	perfectly pitched between comedy and tragedy , hope and despair , about schmidt instead comes far closer than many movies to expressing the way many of us live -- someplace between consuming self-absorption and insistently demanding otherness . 
pos	defies logic , the laws of physics and almost anyone's willingness to believe in it . but darned if it doesn't also keep us riveted to our seats . 
pos	this is a fascinating film because there is no clear-cut hero and no all-out villain . 
pos	obviously , there was n't a huge budget for this film which definitely hindered the production . but the story and ending were so brutal that they made up for a lot . i mean brutal on the level of ju dou and other ( great ) chinese films . i first saw this when i was 14 years old , i ran home and begged god to forgive me for everything ...
neg	falsehoods pile up , undermining the movie's reality and stifling its creator's comic voice . 
neg	i wish i could say " thank god it's friday " , but the truth of the matter is i was glad when it was over . 
neg	the minion is about ... well , a minion . a servant of satan and whose goal is to get the key that will unlock the door where his master is trapped . he is some sort of demon who possess human beings and when the body dies will possess another . anyone who happens to be possessed will go on some berserker rage . dolph lundgren plays lukas , a member of a secret order of templars , who is tasked to keep the key away from the minion . the movie begins a thousand years ago , in the middle east where a couple of knight templars flee from the minion . then flash forward to 1999 , where the key winds up somewhere underground in new york . an archeologist is assigned to study / dig the place where the key was found . needless to say , the minion is after the key , and the movie becomes a long winded chase scene between the minion and lukas and archeologist . the movie , is just that , a low budget b - movie flick . the movie lacks energy , and just trods along . you 'll follow the chase but you wo n't ever feel involved in the story which willfully takes ideas from previous movies ( especially the terminator films ) . the fight scenes with the minion is troublesome , in that you never get the sense of how good or how bad a warrior this demon is . it " skillfully " becomes a one - man army when fighting a squad of templars but sucks when it comes to one - on one . and it 's supposed to be around for a long time . all this goes to show that any sense of logic is just thrown down the drain for convenience . the whole idea of a secret order of templars , a door to hell , and the key is n't well explained . we are merely to accept that they just exist . the movie seems to have been made with the feeling there 's not much potential to the story but only enough to make a few bucks . dolph lundgren sure looks like he wish he were somewhere else . the verdict : 2 of 5 stars .
neg	as a feature-length film , it wears out its welcome as tryingly as the title character . 
pos	even if the naipaul original remains the real masterpiece , the movie possesses its own languorous charm . 
neg	 . curiously , super troopers suffers because it doesn't have enough vices to merit its 103-minute length . 
pos	no sophomore slump for director sam mendes , who segues from oscar winner to oscar-winning potential with a smooth sleight of hand . 
pos	this isn't a narrative film -- i don't know if it's possible to make a narrative film about september 11th , though i'm sure some will try -- but it's as close as anyone has dared to come . 
pos	more mature than fatal attraction , more complete than indecent proposal and more relevant than 9 ½ weeks , unfaithful is at once intimate and universal cinema . 
neg	one of those films that seems tailor made to air on pay cable to offer some modest amusements when one has nothing else to watch . 
neg	 " party camp , " is one of the most mindnumbingly brainless comedies i've seen in awhile .  a late rip-off of the " meatballs " series , the film follows a group of young camp counselors at camp chipmunk .  that's really about all that can be said about the " plot " because nothing much happens , except that the main character , wise-cracking jerry ( andrew ross ) , has the hots for a cute blonde ( kerry brennan ) , and there is a big contest in the climax .  how fun !  since , " party camp , " has practically no screenplay and there is no talent at all involved , the least the makers could have done was make it raunchy and exploitative .  it's not that i think exploitation is necessarily a good quality , but when you are talking about a dull turkey like this , the least that could have been done would be to fill it with a lot of mindless sex .  even a psychopathic slasher at the camp would have done the trick .  at least , then , it wouldn't have been such a chore to sit through .  never before have i seen so many jokes fall astoundingly flat .  the comedy was easy to spot , but it wasn't the least bit funny .  it was groan-inducing .  constantly throghout , i was asking myself if director gary graver actually thought this movie was worth anything .  so what saves , " party camp , " from the dreaded zero star rating ?  well , that's simple : jewel shepard , as a flighty bimbo , was admittedly fun to watch .  although nothing could have saved this film from the lowest depths of motion picture trash , at least if the film had centered on shepard , she might have been able to add a little spice to an otherwise rancid , low-budget teen comedy .  
pos	stripped almost entirely of such tools as nudity , profanity and violence , labute does manage to make a few points about modern man and his problematic quest for human connection . 
pos	'contact' shows why jodie foster is one of our best actresses .  see contact with your family .  it is a movie for all ages .  --a review by stuart cracraft  contact starring : jodie foster , matthew mcconaughey , john hurt director : robert zemeckis star  after a predictable mit phillip morrison powers-of-10 zoom-out start ( which can be surprising to those not familiar with prof . morrison's work ) , contact picks up steam , gradually , building , by-the-end , an irresistable juggernaut and a very good movie that does not as is so often the case fall out-of-balance in terms of too much pandering to the technological " geek " side .  by the end , the audience is left with what good science fiction is supposed to do : evoke a sense of wonder about the universe and evoke questions in your mind about what's out there .  this movie does not let technology overshadow characterization and in this sense it is unusual amongst high-tech movies .  however , except for jodie foster ( elie arroway ) and john hurt ( s . r .  hadden ) , who are both actors of exceptional caliber , the supporting cast are not especially impressive .  hurt certainly has had better roles ( stephen ward in scandal ) .  this one , as the multi-billionare hadden , does not do his acting skills justice .  this is clearly a foster movie by one of the great hollywood lights of our generation .  foster's radiance has never been more strong than in the scene where she finally meets the vegans on their terms .  early scenes take a long , long time to build up to this .  the movie's pacing is very good and subtle .  the panoramas of the radio dishes at arecibo and ceti in new mexico and puerto rico are beautiful .  the politics of foster's character attempting to obtain funding for research at these places are trite and predictable however .  one of the most entertaining , but very short scenes , is when foster is confronted by rob lowe , during a cabinet-level presidential meeting to discuss the alien invitation .  there were real sparks in this scene between foster and lowe and it would behoove them to consider other vehicles in which this dynamism could be explored .  it is the only scene in the movie in which there were tremendous dynamics between two characters .  everything else was very one-sided ( e . g .  foster ) .  lowe can stand up to foster and it showed in that scene at the cabinet table .  the core scene of the movie is set on a surrealistic beach on a far-away world in the starsystem of vega .  it feels a lot like science fiction writer john varley's scenes in his book steel beach , where the female protagonists encounters an immensely superior intelligence , in one case a computer manufactured by mankind itself , and in foster's case , an illusion drawn from her memory .  in another sense , this immensely moving scene evokes gene roddenberry's star trek pilot the cage , later the menagerie , when jeffrey hunter and susan oliver have their memories manipulated to create new worlds in which they live and encounter aliens .  the concept is not new , by any sense , in the world of science fiction .  but the beach scene , which is the centerpiece of the film , as is the whole film , is driven by foster .  freed from her needs to direct by director zemecki , foster is able to let it all hang out in the characterization and the lead she provides to her supporting cast .  as the movie gains speed , foster's acting intensifies and the audience really does experience it with her .  it is certainly oscar-caliber acting , unquestionably .  the supporting cast does well and zemeckis throws in some humor with some president clinton cameos , cleverly manipulated , george stephanopolus-style , to seem very forrest gump .  in fact , zemeckis et .  al .  got in trouble for the usage of some of the footage seen in the movie , vis a vis clinton .  but the audience i attended this movie with just had some good chuckles at clinton's walk-ons .  the much-discussed tension between science and religion in this movie is not particularly insightful to those who have already gone through this course though it is helpful to those in the audience who have not .  also , the near-final scene , in a senate judiciary hearing room is disappointing .  contact is a fitting memorial to the memory of carl sagan , science popularizer , and sometime pedantic gadfly of the halls of academe .  perhaps now , sagan can be said to be with his dragons of eden .  
neg	an exhausting family drama about a porcelain empire and just as hard a flick as its subject matter . 
neg	the whole movie is simply a lazy exercise in bad filmmaking that asks you to not only suspend your disbelief but your intelligence as well . 
pos	this sensitive , smart , savvy , compelling coming-of-age drama delves into the passive-aggressive psychology of co-dependence and the struggle for self-esteem . 
pos	time paradoxes are the devil 's snare for underemployed minds . they 're fun to consider in a ' what if ? ' sort of way . film makers and authors have dealt with this time and again in a host of films and television including ' star trek : first contact ' , the ' back to the future ' trilogy , ' bill and ted 's excellent adventure ' , ' groundhog day ' and the stargate sg1 homage , ' window of opportunity ' . heinlein 's ' all you zombies ' was written decades ago and yet it will still spin out people reading that short story for the first time . in the case of terry gilliam 's excellent film , ' 12 monkeys ' , it 's hard to establish what may be continuity problems versus plot elements intended to make us re - think our conception of the film . repeated viewings will drive us to different conclusions if we retain an open mind . some , seeing the film for the first time , will regard cole , played by bruce willis , as a schizophrenic . most will see cole as a man disturbed by what adams describes as ' the continual wrenching of experience ' visited upon him by time travel . unlike other time travel stories , ' 12 monkeys ' is unclear as to whether future history can be changed by manipulating events in the past . cole tells his psychiatrist , railly ( madeleine stowe ) , that time can not be changed , but a phone call he makes from the airport is intercepted by scientists after he has been sent back to 1996 , in his own personal time - line . even this could be construed as an event that had to happen in a single time - line universe , in order to ensure that the time - line is not altered ... cole has to die before the eyes of his younger self for fate to be realized . if that 's the case , time is like a fluid , it always finds its own level or path , irrespective of the external forces working on it . it boggles the mind to dwell on this sort of thing too much . if you can change future events that then guide the actions of those with the power to send people back in time , as we see on board the plane at the end of the film , then that means the future can be changed by manipulating past events ... or does it ? the film has probably led to plenty of drunken brawls at bars frequented by physicists and mathematicians
pos	while undisputed isn't exactly a high , it is a gripping , tidy little movie that takes mr . hill higher than he's been in a while . 
pos	this is one of mr . chabrol's subtlest works , but also one of his most uncanny . 
neg	i still can't relate to stuart : he's a mouse , for cryin' out loud , and all he does is milk it with despondent eyes and whine that nobody treats him human enough . 
pos	the film just might turn on many people to opera , in general , an art form at once visceral and spiritual , wonderfully vulgar and sublimely lofty -- and as emotionally grand as life . 
pos	the result is something quite fresh and delightful . 
neg	director carl franklin , so crisp and economical in one false move , bogs down in genre cliches here . 
neg	there's only one way to kill michael myers for good : stop buying tickets to these movies . 
pos	tiempo de valientes is a very fun action comedy . after his great fist movie called el fondo del mar and the spectacular tv pro - gramme los simuladores , damian szifron made another great work . tiempo de valientes looks , for moments , a movie made in hollywood . diego peretti and luis luque are two great actors and here , they have great performances . the movie is very fun and funny and it has superb moments . tiempo de valientes is a very fun action comedy that i totally recommend if you wanna have a great time . and i have to congrats szifron for all the talent he has . rating:9
neg	this is a poster movie , a mediocre tribute to films like them ! 
neg	despite its good nature and some genuinely funny moments , super troopers suffers from a bad case of arrested development . 
neg	when i saw this trailer on tv i was surprised . in may of 2008 i was at six flags in new jersey and this was showing at a 4-d attraction ( you know , the attraction that the seats move ) . i take it that the version i saw was a shortened version ( 15 min . ) and also re - created to add the motion effects . it was a cute movie ... but that was it . it was educational and told about the first mission but the ending of a cgi spacewalk seemed a bit ... well ... trite . i was not a big fan of the movie but i would recommend this movie for any parent wanting to inform their children in a fun way about the first moonwalk . i will say , the character actors were well selected and the characters themselves were cute . so all - in - all , i would say , if you want to bring the younger kids ... go for it . but if you are wanting to take your older kids , take them to another movie ... they will thank you .
neg	the emotional overload of female angst irreparably drags the film down . 
pos	wilco fans will have a great time , and the movie should win the band a few new converts , too . 
pos	very predictable but still entertaining
pos	more than makes up for its mawkish posing by offering rousing spates of genuine feeling . 
pos	there's much tongue in cheek in the film and there's no doubt the filmmaker is having fun with it all . 
pos	virtual reality is a topic that has almost defined its own genre .  since 'dark city' ( 1998 ) , films about alternative universes and parallel worlds have been coming one after another .  the most popular and original of them all has been the matrix .  all the films released after it , have been less successful .  david cronenberg's existenz , released only a couple of months after the matrix , was accepted and even appreciated ( by some ) , but the hype was gone .  and when 'the thirteenth floor' aired this fall , it was completely overseen and ignored .  i admit that this issue has become something between tiring and annoying , feeling like eating the same meal over and over again .  it was therefore i was less than excited , when i went out to see to 'the thirteenth floor' .  however , i was positively surprised by josef rusnak's latest picture .  matrix was an entertaining thrill ride through dreams and reality , combining the best of hollywood's action and effects with an intelligent story .  existenz was a violent , gory and unsettling journey through reality and virtual reality , ending in blood and madness .  'the thirteenth floor' is somewhere in between .  instead of going after the crowds - the action audience ( like the matrix ) , or aiming at the horror fans ( like existenz ) , 'the thirteenth floor' presents a more intelligent plot , witch will provide a less entertaining and more serious experience , that the true science fiction lovers will find rewarding .  in a near future . . . on  the thirteenth floor of a classified building , a genius scientist , hannon fuller , has created a simulated world , his personal dreamworld , where every inhabitant is a complex , selflearning program that only believes it is real .  right after the first testing of this world , fuller ( ) is found murdered .  douglas hall ( ) , his closest friend and business partner , immediately becomes the prime suspect and must enter through the thirteenth floor in search of the truth .  a beautiful woman ( gretchen mol ) who suddenly appears on the scene may hold the key to the mystery , which might unravel the horrifying truth about his own existence .  the first " download into simulation " is impressive .  it is the creator's first visit to his world , his creation .  in order to enter this virtual universe , you have to take over someone's identity , become another person .  this is called conciseness transfer , and this is part of the tragedy in the film : people " wake up " in unknown places and strange things start happen .  they start to doubt in their own sanity .  these innocent people pay for the mistakes of their " users " and creators with their sanity and their lives .  it is a frightening reality ; the fact that all the people in the simulation ( the program links ) are living out their lives , oblivious , not knowing that they are puppets in someone's fantasy .  with an appealing ( " blade runner " - type ) of detective story , this film presents the beauty and possibilities of virtual reality and the lurking danger that is always present .  our modern world is metal and glass -- cold , unfriendly , impersonal .  the thirties are different -- colorful , beautiful , elegant , virile .  this contrast demonstrates a wish for change .  virtual reality is here portrayed as a magical , enchanting power that seduces you into its endless possibilities .  to some it is just a journey to their personal paradise , to some a personal playground -- a life without any consequences .  for others - a way to start over and " correct " their mistakes , by living in an illusion of their past .  virtual reality is a wizard that transforms your hopes , dreams and fantasies to life .  at least that's how it is all beginning .  but when you're waking up from your dream , the real world seems worthless and unreal and all you can think off is returning to your personal paradise .  this , almost narcotic effect , soon turns into confusion and ultimately madness .  some important and interesting philosophical questions are raised -- what is real ?  what is thought ?  who are we ?  if these were answered , this film would be the greatest science fiction ever made .  they are off course not answered , but posed in an intelligent manner .  the visual aspect of the film is one of the key elements , since it portrays the contrast between these computer-simulated universes .  kirk m . petrucelli has done a marvelous job with the recreation of the thirties with its glamour , grace and color ; and setting this world in opposition to our own -- an almost caricatured recreation of the nineties .  there are some honest and decent performances by an almost unknown cast and harald klose's moody musical score that is at in right place at the right time .  a rather unusual thing about'the thirteenth floor' is the almost complete lack of special effects .  there are no cgi animated creatures , no bullets in slow motion .  this is a more philosophical approach , reminding about the european way of filmmaking .  this is off course a major disappointment to the audience that is used to endless gunfights and mutated amphibians , but the more serious science fiction buffs and 'dark city'-fans will be pleased .  this film is interesting and inspiring .  it has everything existenz doesn't , but it lacks the immediacy and intensity of the matrix .  and then there is a happy end which , like in 'dark city' , completely alienates it from the rest of the story and context .  the plot itself is not as original as the filmmakers want us to think , since they have virtually sucked out all information from the best science fiction classics , including blade runner and 'dark city' .  with this in mind , 'the thirteenth floor' doesn't make an oscar candidate or a film that will be remembered a year from now , yet this is a beautiful , elegant and intelligent take on virtual reality .  
neg	of course i knew this going in .  why is it that whenever a tv-star makes a movie it's always a romantic comedy , and then they say on entertainment tonight or something , that they were " attracted to the characters .  they were really original . "  original ? ! let me give you a run-through of picture perfect : character a ) kate ( jennifer aniston , from tv's friends ) , a smart , beautiful , professional woman wants two things she can't have : a new job-title and the love of her co-worker kevin bacon .  her boss will only give her the job if she gets married and gets a mortgage and gets a lease on a german sportscar , and kevin bacon pnly sleeps with married or involved girls .  what does she do ?  she invents a fiance !  then when everyone wants to meet him , she tells some poor schmoe she met at a wedding that she will pay him $1000 to pretend to be in love with her for a company dinner , and pick a fight with her at the end , thus breaking the engagement but still being able to keep her job , since the guy ends up looking like a jerk and she is the poor , defenceless female .  he , of course , goes along with it .  gee , i wonder if they get together in the end .  i've seen more original stuff on the wb .  and better stuff too .  picture perfect also makes the mistake of being _wayyyyy_ too long at 100 minutes , and expecting us to like aniston's character , who comes off as a cold , spoiled bitch .  
pos	apart from its own considerable achievement , metropolis confirms tezuka's status as both the primary visual influence on the animé tradition and its defining philosophical conscience . 
neg	cuba gooding jr . valiantly mugs his way through snow dogs , but even his boisterous energy fails to spark this leaden comedy . 
neg	what the audience feels is exhaustion , from watching a movie that is dark ( dark green , to be exact ) , sour , bloody and mean . 
pos	as much as i wanted to like this film as i went into it , the more pleased i was when i left .  first , getting through all the usual lines of newspaper glitz : " if you liked scream , you'll love wild things ! "   " campbell gives a stunning performance ! "   " this twisty plot will have you dazzled for days ! "   ( oh yeah , the day a newspaper uses these is the day neve campbell falls in love with me )  now , onto more serious stuff ( and with this film , i mean that in nearly a sarcastic way ) .  wild things has single-handedly broken down the rules surrounding the r rating from the mpaa .  i'm not saying that in a bad way , but when you see this film , you may be shocked by what you see .  however , perhaps the mpaa was pleased by the film's charming cast and tricky plot , that they let the film slide with an r rating .  being mormon , i'm bound to hear an uproar from religious zealots warning me not to see the film .  trouble is , i have already seen it .  and i like it !  wild things is a film noir of the 90s , filled with 40s sensibilities , and yet breaking the rules and modern-day taboos of 90s culture .  the style in which it is filmed is rich in color .  the actors are all gorgeous people , seemingly drawn from the same gene pool and placed into this film .  sure , it's all too good to be true , but ain't it fun to watch ?  when movies like this come along ( sort of a better version of basic instinct ) there is bound to be people who either love it or hate it .  there will be people who don't want to admit liking what they see , but i tell you , most anyone who sees this will like it .  wild things begins at blue bay high school , the one high school in the world that any teenager would love to get into .  it's almost as if students are put through entrance exams just for admittance ( totally based on looks alone ) .  of course , there are those select few who may look slightly ugly , but compared to the average person , they are gorgeous .  immediately , the film finds its tone and the audience settles in for an enjoyable time .  we can turn off our brains , right ?  wrong .  while you may be expecting one thing to happen , it certainly doesn't turn out that way .  the film begins in a classroom , with nearly all the main characters present .  there's sam lombardo ( matt dillon ) , a counselor for the students .  he's heading the class discussion .  there's also kelly van ryan ( denise richards ) , a snobby rich teen who has fallen in love with sam .  teaching the class , however , are two policemen : ray duquette ( kevin bacon ) and gloria perez ( daphne rubin-vega ) , who want to talk about 'sex . . .   ( cheers ) crimes ( boos ) ' .   " what is a sex crime ? "  ray asks .   " not gettin' any ! "  one student responds .  this pretty much sets the tone of the film we are about to watch .  however , upon hearing this , one student , suzie toller ( neve campbell ) , stands up and leaves the room , commenting that they can both kiss part of her body .  and so , wild things sets into motion .  quickly , kelly begins hitting on sam , but sam doesn't want anything to do with her advances .  kelly is stubborn and continues to pursue him .  she even pleads with him to let her wash his jeep .  surprisingly , that's really all i can tell you about the plot .  any more would give away one of the many crucial plot twists .  and what's more , these plot twists are actually unpredictable .  going along the way of scream , wild things maintains that film's surprises , and then adds even more to them .  there are more plot twists in this film than probably any i have ever seen .  and even though you think you may get tired of them , the surprises are so genuine that it's rather pleasing .  going back over them in my mind , nearly all of them work , though some stretch the boundaries of belief .  thankfully , the convoluted plot doesn't give us much time to think about each one , pouncing yet another twist on us before the shock of the previous one has worn off .  as for the critics who complain that the film is trashy--well , it is .  this is pretty much just one trashy film .  however , it is the kind of trashy that isn't hard to watch .  it's good trash , in a sense .  one , the screenplay knows that it's not to be taken seriously , and it includes a lot of humor and satire into the story .  this varies everywhere from kelly's mother ( theresa russell ) , who is more of a caricature of rich people , all the way to an ambulance-chasing lawyer ( bill murray ) , who wears a neck-brace to cover an insurance scam he is running .  bill murray also provides the best character in the film , and most of the genuine laughs .  and two , the sex is more than gratuitous , although not unwelcomed .  wild things is supposed to have sex in it ( what film with that title wouldn't ? ) , and this movie breaks the boundaries .  instead of having heterosexual sex scenes , it also includes lesbian scenes between denise richards and neve campbell ( don't worry . . .  it's not as graphic as you might think ) .  the heterosexual scenes are quite graphic , but the surprise shocker is kevin bacon's full-frontal nude scene .  it's very brief , so if you blink , you may miss ( ahem ) it .  and , for as long as i can remember , i don't think i have seen an r-rated film show an erect one before ( it's not completely , but judging from the audiences' reaction , it was more than they expected too ) .  also , during one scene late in the film , there seemed to be a relationship brewing between bacon and dillon's characters , but nothing came of it ( makes you wonder if the director had to cut it in order for the r rating , or if the actors refused to do it ) .  what first made me want to see wild things was its cast .  neve campbell , of course , has been one of my favorite actresses since the scream films were released .  here , however , she turns every typical role she has done on its head and plays a gothic pothead .  the closest role to this was her performance in the craft ( though even in that she was a nice girl ) .  campbell is probably the best in the film and shows her wide range of talent .  you can tell she will be around for a long time .  denise richards will also be around for a long time , although she may be limited to the roles without much range .  here , she gets to express more emotions than in her stiff ( yet effective ) performance in starship troopers .  hopefully one day she will land a very good role that can display her ability .  and then there is daphne rubin-vega , a newcomer to the movies .  she gives a very good performance , although her character is mostly left to the background for the first hour and a half .  towards the end she does get a bigger part .  on the male side , matt dillon is probably the best , giving a subtle performance that surprises with every twist .  kevin bacon has a slightly wooden character , but he makes the most of it .  you must have admiration , though , for what he did on screen .  and judging from many of the women's reactions in the theater to that shot , they have grown a deeper appreciation for bacon ( yeah , right ) .  and then there is bill murray .  his performance is the comic relief , and he nearly steals the film .  as a whole , the entire cast works wondrously together , and they seem at home , even when doing the menage a troi .  director john mcnaughton , who has previously done the critically acclaimed henry : portrait of a serial killer , has constructed a wonderfully twisty plot that works .  his direction is smooth and stylish .  the visuals are striking , filled with rich colors , and almost so realistic that we can actually breathe the humidity in the air .  however , he seems more at home when the actors aren't talking .  his fly-by shots of the swampy areas are brilliant , and his photography of denise richards' climbing out of the pool is a highlight .  the cinematography is gorgeous in its details . its not often that you see a film like this , and we should watch it just to see how the camera can take pictures .  then , there is the music .  this was probably the most obvious thing to me , as it set the perfect mood for the film .  it's hard to describe in words , so just see the film and listen to it .  it's wonderfully composed and presented .  and be sure to stick around during the closing credits !  mcnaughton has finally put the ending credits to good use ( while most comedies use it for outtakes ) .  he has included some small scenes which help explain the preceding events .  some may say that these are lame attempts to explain the convoluted plot , but it's an entertaining way to finish the film .  plus , there are some shocking moments in these ending credits which just add to the fun .  wild things is appropriately rated r for strong sexuality , nudity , language and violence .  again , the nudity is rather unnecessary , but let's face it--people want to see it .  so why not give it to them ?  neve campbell , admirably , has a no-nudity clause in her contract , and the most you see of her is from behind as she takes her top off ( way to go , neve ! ) .  the sex scenes are graphic , especially the first one we see , between the mother and one of her deck hands .  one almost wonders how they got away with the r rating .  the language is quite harsh too , ranging from sexual innuendo to your average , everyday profanity .  and i can't stress it enough : don't allow kids under 18 to see this film .  the target age for the movie is the 18-24 range , and that's who should see it .  it's definitely not for those under 18 !  did i mention that this film is rated r ? however , for those that do get a chance to watch it , you will probably more likely be pleased , and may even take friends to see it the next time .  
pos	the film has a terrific look and salma hayek has a feel for the character at all stages of her life . 
neg	the title trapped turns out to be a pretty fair description of how you feel while you're watching this ultra-manipulative thriller . 
neg	the characterizations and dialogue lack depth or complexity , with the ironic exception of scooter . 
pos	anna and the king strides onto the screen in full regalia , wearing a brilliant suit of sumptuous landscapes , deep , vibrant colors and an epic storyline .  it's true beauty comes from it's subtle ruminations on the politics of power , whether it's between governments , or the interplay between a man and a woman .  anna ( jodie foster ) is a widowed british schoolteacher with a touch of wanderlust trying to grasp her quicksilver feelings concerning the recent death of her husband .  with son in tow , she takes the employ of king mongkut ( chow yun-fat ) to tutor his son in the english language .  mongkut sees the strength of the british and correctly surmises that his country's future lies in opening itself up to the ways of the western world .  anna function is to help provide that link .  the core of the film , of course , deals with the blossoming love between anna and mongkut as it attempts to germinate in the unfriendly soil of a shifting political climate .  foster plays anna with equal parts clenched jaw and wide-eyed wonder .  she is assertive , yet , respectful of the king as she initially tries to impose her western sensibilities upon him .  it is one of foster's strongest performances since silence of the lambs in a role she could not have played earlier in her career .  she brings a mature self- awareness and determination that might not have come across from a younger foster .  it's a joy to watch her cagily bargain for her own measure of influence within the realm of mongkut's monarchy .  when she makes her entrance into a politically charged banquet mid-film , she exudes a hypnotic beauty that is deepened by her textured performance .  chow-yun fat's king mongkut is every measure of foster's anna , perhaps even more so .  this is the chow yun-fat that hong kong cinema has been in love with for nearly twenty years .  he is imposing , yet vulnerable , playful , but stern .  it is an impressively assured and nuanced performance .  precious time is stolen from the movie's 155 minutes running time by an unengaging subplot involving one the king's concubines ( bai ling ) and her love of a commoner .  it strikes with the subtlety of siam's fabled white elephant as it stomps through the leisurely paced story .  some may be put off by the action filled climax of the movie .  although a bit inconsistent in tone from the rest of the film , it fits within the established subplot of a perceived siege by neighboring burma , a country backed by the british .  anna and the king transcends being a predictable , traditional love story by avoiding mawkishness .  it shows a seduction of intelligence .  ever mindful of each other's positions , anna and king mongkut negotiate a maze of social customs , conflicting world views and lost loved ones to connect on a level that ultimately proves deeply satisfying , if not achingly bittersweet .  
neg	everything else about high crimes is , like the military system of justice it portrays , tiresomely regimented . 
neg	i'm not sure these words have ever been together in the same sentence : this erotic cannibal movie is boring . 
neg	it's time to take cover .  after a hiatus of about fifteen years , the disaster movie has come back with renewed zest .  in early 1997 , there were no less than three movies about volcanoes alone , one on television and two in the theaters , with dante's peak and volcano in heavy competition for the moviegoing dollar .  of the two , i had heard that dante's peak was the better film , so i decided to check it out when it was released on video .  the film begins with a slow motion scene of people in a third world country trying to evacuate their little town .  the town is being covered in ash and sulfuric water from what we presume is a volcanic eruption .  flaming rocks of various sizes also fall from the sky , crushing homes and people .  we see people panicking , people crying , and even horses rearing .  it is a disaster of biblical proportions , signified to us by one person dragging a cross down a road .  symbolism doesn't get much more blatant than that .  we learn that harry dalton ( pierce brosnan ) , a volcanologist with the u . s . geological survey , was there with his wife when the eruption occurred .  harry survived , but his wife did not .  a few years later , harry is sent to investigate some unusual seismic activity detected near the small town of dante's peak , washington ( which , we are told , has been voted second most desirable place to live ( under 20 , 000 ) by the readers of money magazine ) .  there harry meets rachel wando , a single mother of two who serves as mayor of dante's peak and proprietor of a small coffee shop .  although the mayor doesn't seem to be alarmed by the presence of a man sent to determine if the mountain next to their town is going to blow up , a few members of the city council are .  they are afraid that harry's presence is going to scare off an investor who has pledged to put millions of dollars into developing dante's peak .  they would rather have any news of possible stirrings within the neighboring dormant volcano swept under the rug .  however , when an amorous young couple takes a skinny-dip in the local hot springs , they turn up cooked by lava which bubbles up from a small fissure underneath .  thus begins a chain of events leading up to the inevitable eruption .  this film contains a number of cliches .  the amorous couple is one .  as soon as they doff their clothes , you know they're going to die .  the town busybody and the abrasive mother-in-law make appearances , as does the death-defying dog .  countless familiar scenarios only serve to make this film very predictable .  watching the movie , i was able to not only anticipate each of the major plot elements , but some of the dialogue as well .  unfortunate , since much of the dialog is terrible .  for example , harry's boss , paul ( charles hallahan ) , and a team from the u . s . geological survey join harry to assess the situation .  paul basically tells the townsfolk that harry's eruption predictions aren't cause for alarm .  this causes harry to leave in a fit of rage , only to turn up the next day , ready for work .  when paul asks harry why he stayed , he says with grim determination , " cause this town's in trouble and i'm the best man you've got . "  even better is when harry is trying to explain the need to jolt the residents into leaving .  he likens the situation to how a frog will jump out if dropped into a pot of boiling water .  if the frog is in cold water which is gradually heated up , however , the frog won't move and will allow itself to be cooked .   " is that your recipe for frog soup ? "  asks one of the team members .   " it's my recipe for disaster , " responds harry .  dante's peak has a singular talent for pointing out the obvious .  our heroes are in a boat in the middle of a lake which harry realizes the volcanic activity has turned to acid .  mayor wando demonstrates her brilliant powers of deduction by proclaiming , in a very grave tone , " acid eats metal . "  thanks for the tip .  when we first see the u . s . geological survey building , there's a caption labeling it as such .  this wouldn't have been so bad if it weren't for the fact that the caption is right above a sign on the building which reads , in large letters , " u . s . geological survey . "  i suppose the caption is for people who can't read signs .  although harry and mayor wando become an item by the end of the film , the viewer has no idea why .  there is a severe lack of chemistry between the two characters , and the relationship seems rushed because of this .  when they get close to kissing , i was asking myself , " why do they want to kiss ?  were they even attracted to each other ? "  if i were the mayor , i would sure think twice about kissing a guy who doesn't even crack a smile through the whole movie , trying to pull off the rough-yet-debonair act .  who does he think he is ?  james bond ?  the eruption of the volcano feels similarly rushed .  there are several " warning signs " prior to the eruption itself , but they are so lackluster and without suspense that we don't feel as if they are leading up to anything .  for example , one of the survey team members makes his way down into the crater of the volcano in order to retrieve a remote controlled robot .  a tremor occurs .  does he plunge headlong to his death ?  is he engulfed in lava which shoots up from below ?  no , a couple of rocks fall on him and break his leg .  the sole purpose of this scene seemed to be to set up the subsequent chopper rescue scene , which i suppose was intended to be dramatic as well .  it wasn't .  one plot thread left noticeably hanging was the investment in the town of dante's peak .  in a disaster movie , there's usually one guy who's greedy enough to cover up the possibility of eruption/fire/earthquake/explosion/tsunami/tornado/meteorite , and usually gets killed by the disaster .  it's okay , of course , because we all think he got what he deserved .  if you're going to be unoriginal , you might as well go all the way .  in dante's peak , the city councilmembers are concerned , but they don't really try hard enough .  maybe the mayor's abrasive mother-in-law should have been the one .  for no apparent reason , she snaps at harry for even positing that the volcano could erupt .  perhaps her ancestors invested in some pompeii real estate .  there are a couple of good things about this movie .  the first is the scenery .  there are panoramic shots of forests , lakes and mountains that are absolutely beautiful .  the second is the special effects .  they are the closest i've ever seen to a real pyroclastic eruption .  but when elements which don't speak are going to be the best parts of your movie , you'd probably better rewrite the script .  
pos	an original little film about one young woman's education . 
pos	despite its flaws , secretary stays in your head and makes you question your own firmly held positions . 
pos	but this is lohman's film . her performance moves between heartbreak and rebellion as she continually tries to accommodate to fit in and gain the unconditional love she seeks . 
neg	the ring just left me cold and wet like i was out in the seattle drizzle without rainwear . 
neg	too intensely focused on the travails of being hal hartley to function as pastiche , no such thing is hartley's least accessible screed yet . 
pos	warning : this review contains some spoilers for the 1964 film " fail-safe . "  if you haven't seen the film yet , proceed with caution .  nutshell : a relevant , intelligent , suspenseful drama .  still powerful today , even after the end of the cold war .  -------------------- " fail-safe " ( usa , 1964 ) drama , 111 minutes  screenplay by walter bernstein based on the novel by eugene burdick and harvey wheeler produced by max e . youngstein directed by sidney lumet  review by jamahl epsicokhan --------------------  the most ironic aspect of nuclear war is that it doesn't have a winning side and a losing side .  in a nuclear confrontation , everybody loses , and the aftereffects have devastating effects that impact the entire world--assuming the world survives .  the idea--and perhaps the only real option--is to avoid war at all costs .  this is the theme of sidney lumet's " fail-safe , " a fictional drama based on the novel by eugene burdick and harvey wheeler .   " fail-safe " takes place during the heart of the cold war ( the actual film was released two years after the cuban missile crisis ) , when the united states and the soviet union were in static discord over an issue that can be summarized in a single word : communism .  the premise centers around a combination of accidents and operation flaws .  five u . s . bombers carrying nuclear warheads are ordered to set a routine course for moscow after an unidentified aircraft is spotted heading toward america .  the unidentified aircraft turns out to be a commercial airliner , but a mechanical failure strikes the military base that commands the bombers .  suddenly out of contact , and with standing orders to remain on course until receiving new directives , the bomber pilots cannot be recalled , and they proceed to moscow with the intention of destroying it with a nuclear strike .  a great deal of " fail-safe " 's plot follows various characters as they attempt to devise ways of stopping the u . s . bombers from reaching russia's borders--at any cost .  the plot is compelling , and the story creates urgency and dread by painting the grimmest of worst case scenarios .  the reality sets in quickly as one attempt to turn the bombers after another fails .  general bogan ( frank overton ) , taking orders directly from the president of the united states himself ( henry fonda ) , is powerless--the fate of the world lies in the hands of an automated , pre-programmed system that may not be stoppable , simply because the creators of the war machines were too efficient in their task to make a no-win situation winnable .  the events in " fail-safe " are fascinating because they're anything but predictable , but the real reason " fail-safe " works is because it understands more about nuclear war than what exists within the confines of its plot .  a key ingredient to the film is its ability to create an ongoing polemic about nuclear war , communism , the cold war , and the united states' role in all of it .  most of this is through the film's use of the character groeteschele ( walter matthau ) , an arrogant civilian theorist of nuclear weapons use who , incidentally , is on the president's advising staff for analyzing the statistical plausibility of waging a nuclear war .  many of the film's most pointed messages arise from discussions where groeteschele is one of the key voices .  early in the film , he hosts a dinner party where he explains the importance of " strategy " in a nuclear assault to " minimize " casualties .   " what's the difference between 60 million and 100 million dead ? "  a guest asks impatiently .   " forty million , " groeteschele responds wryly .  the problem with groeteschele's mindset is that he * believes * nuclear combat to be a viable method of war .  the only difference to him between nuclear armageddon and conventional warfare is the raw data and the casualty totals .  groeteschele realizes that these weapons can destroy the world several times over .  yet his answer to the arms race is not to slow down and try to cool the situation off , as general black ( dan o'herlihy ) has often recommended .  on the contrary--according to groeteschele , that would lead to russia having * more * nuclear weapons than the u . s . , which would clearly put america at a disadvantage .  such a stance was perhaps the central paradox and misguided practice of the arms race .   " fail-safe " clearly sees it as one of the central issues of the cold war , and , likewise , it becomes a central theme in the film .  why continue to build such machines of mass destruction while already possessing enough of them to destroy the world several times over ?  is it wise ?  is it even logical ?  no , not really .  although " fail-safe " is more about the issue of nuclear weapons than it is about the political ramifications of communism , there is a scene in the film that deals with communism in an intentionally superficial , one-sided sort of way .  again , this is achieved through groeteschele , who is easily the film's most important character in terms of the larger-theme significance .  in addition to providing the central " pro-nuclear war " voice that the film warns against , he also makes key remarks about communists that show just how much fear and resentment people of the period were prone to when it came to communism .  the context the film uses suggests that this hatred was often glib .  one of groeteschele's " logical " trains of thought ventures so far into fantasy theoretical prediction that it's merely absurd .  he labels the average marxist an " unfeeling , calculating machine " that will do whatever it takes to preserve itself .  groeteschele takes it so far as to say that if the u . s . drops the warhead on moscow , the soviets will * instantly * surrender , for to retaliate would invite counter-measures that would further destroy russia's home soil--which must be preserved at all costs .  groeteschele seems to forget these people are human beings with emotions ; general black quickly reminds him that the soviets would attack out of revenge--as any normal person would .  the irony here is groeteschele's own mechanical theorizing .  he is so quick to judge the enemy that he doesn't even realize his own seemingly programmed thought patterns .  once the film makes it evident that turning the u . s . bombers will be impossible , the question becomes what the * consequences * of destroying moscow will be .  just how will the soviet union's leader react , and what can the president do to convey his best intentions ?   ( just * how * does one pass off the deaths of millions of people as an * mishap * ? )  with the help of his translator buck ( larry hagman ) , the president negotiates at length with the soviet leader , in scenes that prove amazingly taut and powerful in their simplicity , with lumet's long takes of fonda and hagman in the same frame , exchanging the dialog between the president and the soviet leader .  without getting into too much detail , i will say that the compromise they ultimately reach is very costly , yet necessary and as sensible as possible under the circumstances .   ( that is , as sensible as a nuclear " incident " can probably be . )  it does accomplish what it must : it avoids an all-out war , something that simply isn't possible because of its all-too-real consequences .  dramatically , the ending is quite powerful , and the use of o'herlihy's character as the symbolic " matador " ( providing a bookend to the film by ending the story while tying into his dream sequence from the film's opening ) , is particularly appropriate .   " fail-safe " is a production of a major hollywood studio ( released by columbia pictures ) , and it has the structure of a high-tension suspense thriller that one might expect from a hollywood film .  nevertheless , under lumet's direction and walter bernstein's intelligent adaptation of burdick's and wheeler's novel , the film continues to have a lasting effect even after the events on screen have unfolded .  the film often warns that the automation of war is something that may make nuclear holocaust an unintentional consequence of such mass arming .  but it was the conscious , human choice to * initialize * this automatic arming that " fail-safe " also finds dangerous .  in retrospect , the arms race seems to be one of the most puzzling exercises in futility of the century .  it's just fortunate that both sides were finally able to come to their senses and slow down , rather than continuing groeteschele's dangerous approach of speeding up and causing a possible meltdown .  
pos	one can't deny its seriousness and quality . 
pos	it's a lovely , sad dance highlighted by kwan's unique directing style . 
pos	i had a dream that a smart comedy would come along to rescue me from a summer of teen-driven , toilet-humor codswallop , and its name was earnest . 
pos	the film will appeal to discovery channel fans and will surely widen the perspective of those of us who see the continent through rose-colored glasses . 
pos	leguizamo and jones are both excellent and the rest of the cast is uniformly superb . 
pos	if it 's action and adventure you want in a movie , then you 'd be best advised to look elsewhere . on the other hand , if it 's a lazy day and you want a good movie to go along with that mood , check out " the straight story . " richard farnsworth puts on a compelling performance as the gentle and gentlemanly alvin straight , in this true story of alvin 's journey on a riding mower across three states to see his estranged brother who has had a stroke . farnsworth is perfect in this role , as he travels his long and winding road , making friends of strangers and doling out lots of grandfatherly type advice about family along the way . the story moves along as slowly as the riding mower , but somehow manages to keep the viewer watching , waiting for the next life lesson alvin 's going to offer . stretch out on the couch , relax and enjoy . it 's the only way to watch this very good movie , which rates a 7/10 in my book .
neg	one of the oddest and most inexplicable sequels in movie history . 
neg	a loud , low-budget and tired formula film that arrives cloaked in the euphemism 'urban drama . '
neg	not an altogether bad start for the program -- but what a slap in the face to real law enforcement . the worst part of the series is that it attempts to bill itself as reality fare -- and is anything but . men and women that dedicate their lives to the enforcement of laws deserve better than this . what is next , medical school in a minute ? charo performing lipo ? charles grodin assisting on a hip replacement ? c'mon ... show a little respect . even the citizens of muncie are outing the program as staged . police academy = high school gym ? poor editing ( how many times can they use the car - to - car shot of the taco bell in the background ? ) , cheesy siren effects ( the same loop added ad nauseum to every ' call ' whether rolling code or not ) , and last , but not least -- more officer safety issues than you could shake a stick at . if i want to see manufactured police work and wise - ass fake cops , i would watch reno 911 .
pos	weir is well-respected in hollywood for turning scripts with difficult subject-matter into deceptively simple , powerful films , the mosquito coast ( utopia ) and fearless ( post-traumatic stress disorder ) among them .  in the truman show , weir essentially breathes life into the now-tired concept of media-manipulation by tackling the material from the inside-out .  it certainly helps that he has an underrated performer in top-form playing the title character , truman burbank .  by now you must be aware of the premise : unbeknownst to him , truman ( carrey ) is the star of his own tv series , a 24-7 peep-show in which he is surrounded by actors and placed in loosely scripted situations ; people around the world tune in for the voyeuristic thrill of his genuine reactions to fictitious stimulants .  `seahaven' , his hometown , and the show itself , are the brainchild of christof ( harris ) , who presides over his creation in the base of a fake moon , directing over 500 cameras and hundreds of actors and extras .  for 30 years , truman suspects nothing-`we accept the reality we're given , ' poses christof-but a desire to break free of the sunny town and visit a long lost love in `fiji' ( mcelhone , who was actually an actress fired by christof for trying to break the confidentiality agreement ) overwhelms him .  thus , christof and his team suddenly find themselves working twice as hard to keep the veneer of seahaven intact , lest truman discover the world outside and put an end to the highly-rated program .  in a few broad strokes , weir creates a convincing second-reality , and he has the good sense not to bring christof into the picture until almost three-quarters through .  this allows us to comprehend and accept truman's world before we contextualize it .  for all his madness , christof has shown the world a place without violence and hardship , and demonstrated that a human being can function well within it .  truman is an inspiration to his audience because he grew up to be , well , so darn nice ; like a sibling ( or , perhaps more appropriately , a caged animal in an interactive zoo ) , they want to see him succeed .  the surrealistic soap opera is completely plausible thanks to a tight screenplay and a sympathetic carrey-he really is an everyman here , abandoning his facial contortions in favour of a credible , wide-eyed bewilderment .  cinematically , the truman show is impeccable , stylishly photographed by peter biziou and littered with symbolic images .  as well , it employs wojciech kilar's piece " zycie za zycie' masterfully and beautifully .  if the film has any flaws , one may find them in laura linney's characterization as meryl , truman's " wife " ( i doubt that betty crocker impersonation would fool anyone ) , and in a subplot involving truman's `father' , which feels curiously incomplete .  there are a few stupendous sequences , and the film pulls off a wonderful trick : we become truman's audience as much as the loyal viewers in the film .  they wear buttons asking `how will it end ? '  i couldn't wait to know myself , though i didn't exactly want it to end , for this inspired movie is possibly the best-and most complex-summer picture in years .  
pos	a gripping documentary that reveals how deep the antagonism lies in war-torn jerusalem . 
pos	unzipped is a cinematic portrait of isaac mizrahi , an artist whose palette is fabric .  ostensibly , the film is a documentary , but use of that term requires stretching its meaning .  many scenes appear staged , and a great deal of cutting-and-pasting has been done in the editing room .  the cinema verite effect is a conceit -- genuine spontaneity is at a premium , and everyone is aware of and playing to the camera ( especially would-be actresses like cindy crawford ) .  director douglas keeve ( who was mizrahi's lover at the time ) freely admits that he " couldn't care less about the truth " but was more interested in capturing " the spirit and love in isaac and in fashion . "  despite violating nearly every rule of " legitimate " documentary film making , however , unzipped is a remarkably enjoyable piece of entertainment .  while it sheds only a little light on the behind-the-scenes world of the fashion industry , it presents a fascinating , if incomplete , picture of designer mizrahi .  this man is the perfect subject for this kind of study -- he's funny , energetic , and eminently quotable .  he has unusual views on just about everything , from fashion ( " it's about women not wanting to look like cows " ) to mary tyler moore ( " between her and jackie kennedy , they shaped this country " ) to style ( " it's almost impossible to have style nowadays without the right dogs " ) .  unzipped also gives a glimpse into the creative process by which mizrahi turns an idea into a dress .  it's almost certainly different that anyone would imagine .  the designer draws on a variety of sources for his look , including nanook of the north and old bette davis movies , then enlists the aid of a ouija board to help form the collection .  in particular , unzipped traces mizrahi's development of his fall 1994 line from its inception in the spring to the final fashion show , which highlights a number of prominent models , including cindy crawford , naomi campbell , kate bush , and linda evangelista .  on the technical side , a number of interesting choices were made in filming unzipped .  a variety of film stocks were used : super 8 , 16 mm black-and-white , and 35 mm color .  there is a purpose to this beyond simple artiness -- the stock often serves as an emotional key to the movie , and , during the climactic fashion show , color is used to show the audience's perspective , while black-and-white is for the behind-the- scenes sequences .  nevertheless , some viewers will be put off by this treatment .  while unzipped isn't an expose on the fashion industry per se , keeve has enough clips of petulant models to make the viewer realize how tame robert altman was with ready to wear .  overall , however , this movie is far more about mizrahi than anything else , and only when viewed from that perspective does unzipped succeed .  when the designer declares that " everything is frustrating except designing clothes -- that's beautiful and liberating , " it fits perfectly with the image of him that unzipped has constructed .  
neg	finally coming down off of miramax's deep shelves after a couple of aborted attempts , waking up in reno makes a strong case for letting sleeping dogs lie . 
neg	some people have made a point of dissing this movie because they question the plausibility of black people in the old west , asian people in the old west or women with guns in the old west period . get a grip and read a book . there were quite a few asians ( chinese ) , there were quite a few blacks ( freedmen ) and everybody outside of the gentile class had ready access to guns ; it is the second amendment you know . and as far as the use of modern language goes , none of those westerns people have waxed nostalgic about actually used language that was consistent with the era depicted . americans had different accents , used different inflections , spoke at a very different pace and used plenty of words and phrases that would be unrecognizable today . do n't blame historical inaccuracy for the fact that you just did n't dig it . be honest . maybe you 're just uncomfortable with what you 're seeing .
pos	insomnia does not become one of those rare remakes to eclipse the original , but it doesn't disgrace it , either . 
pos	a difficult but worthy film that bites off more than it can chew by linking the massacre of armenians in 1915 with some difficult relationships in the present . 
neg	the movie's major and most devastating flaw is its reliance on formula , though , and it's quite enough to lessen the overall impact the movie could have had . 
neg	this is a particularly toxic little bonbon , palatable to only a chosen and very jaundiced few . 
neg	steve martin is one of the funniest men alive .  if you can take that as a true statement , then your disappointment at this film will equal mine .  martin can be hilarious , creating some of the best laugh-out-loud experiences that have ever taken place in movie theaters .  you won't find any of them here .  the old television series that this is based on has its moments of humor and wit .  bilko ( and the name isn't an accident ) is the head of an army motor pool group , but his passion is his schemes .  every episode involves the sergeant and his men in one or another hair-brained plan to get rich quick while outwitting the officers of the base .   " mchale's navy " 's granddaddy .  that's the idea behind this movie too , but the difference is that , as far-fetched and usually goofy as the television series was , it was funny .  there is not one laugh in the film .  the re-make retains the goofiness , but not the entertainment .  everything is just too clean .  it was obviously made on a hollywood back lot and looks every bit like it .  it all looks brand new , even the old beat-up stuff .  martin is remarkably small in what should have been a bigger than life role .  in the original , phil silvers played the huckster with a heart of gold and more than a touch of sleaziness .  martin's bilko is a pale imitation .  the only semi-bright spot is phil hartman as bilko's arch-enemy .  it's not saying much , considering martin's lackluster character , but hartman leaves him in the dust .  
neg	blue crush is so prolonged and boring it isn't even close to being the barn-burningly bad movie it promised it would be . 
pos	daughter from danang reveals that efforts toward closure only open new wounds . it doesn't flinch from its unsettling prognosis , namely , that the legacy of war is a kind of perpetual pain . 
neg	they should have stuck to the promise emblazoned on the original movie's poster : " no sequel . "  scary movie 2 is nowhere near as funny as its predecessor , and it is not because the wayans brothers , shawn and marlon doing the writing and keenen ivory behind the camera , don't try .  what defeats them is the genre they have chosen to spoof .  the first movie - an outrageous , low-brow , savage satire of teen slasher flicks such as scream and i know what you did last summer - succeeded because of its take-no-prisoners attitude toward a type of film that was in vogue , familiar and popular .  in scary movie 2 , the filmmakers take on the haunted house-ghost story format which , if you look at the grosses for such recent lame offerings as the respective remakes of the haunting and house on haunted hill , did not draw audiences nor enter the cultural psyche as did the various teen slasher series .  scary movie 2 does start off promising with a wonderful spoof of the exorcist , featuring james wood in the max von sydow role and veronica cartwright lampooning ellen burstyn .  of course split pea soup is the punch line - an overabundant amount , which offers the hope that the rest of the movie will be just as tasteless and excessive .  but this pre-credit sequence has nothing at all to do with the main action , which features the cast members from the original signing up to spend a weekend at a creepy haunted mansion as part of a university class project .  some of the jokes are as scatological and offensive as in the original , but they lack that take-no-prisoners bite that raised scary movie to the heights of burlesque .  scary movie 2 merely lurches from one lame sendup to another , offering weak spoofs of that nike shoe ad in which everyone does acrobatics with a basketball , and the films what lies beneath and hannibal ( features that only faired adequately at the box office ) , john woo's mission : impossible 2 and charlie's angels .  it is as if the wayans and their team of writers - at least seven are credited - just threw ideas in a blender and hoped they'd coalesce .  they don't .  while the pace of the original left you breathless , the sequel moves with the speed of an 18-wheeler carrying two tons of concrete up a steep mountain road .  you can almost hear the reels panting .  scary movie 2 tries very hard to live up to its original , but it falls very short .  it's a dissatisfying spectacle , a very weak sister of a very good movie .  the really scary aspect of this sequel is how disappointing it really is .  
neg	about as original as a gangster sweating bullets while worrying about a contract on his life . 
neg	elmo touts his drug as being 51 times stronger than coke . if you're looking for a tale of brits behaving badly , watch snatch again . it's 51 times better than this . 
neg	[siegel] and co-writers lisa bazadona and grace woodard have relied too much on convention in creating the characters who surround frankie . 
pos	after indecent proposal and up close and personal , redford was wise to direct himself in a picture at last .  redford may look great on-screen , but over the past few years , he's proven himself a bigger talent behind the camera .  ordinary people is one of the best films of the nineteen-eighties , and it was the first picture he helmed .  while the milagro beanfield war was only occasionally successful at combining magic-realism with . . . um ,  realism , and i've never been much of a fan of a river runs through it ( to the chagrin of many ) , quiz show was dazzling , energetic and convincing .  the horse whisperer represents both his directorial return to nature films and the first time in that sub-genre redford seems equally concerned with humans and scenery .  scott-thomas plays annie maclean , an uptight but respected new york magazine editor whose daughter grace ( johanssen ) loses a leg and a good friend when an early morning ride climaxes with their horses colliding with a semi .  grace's horse survived , but barely , and has gone mad .  annie refuses to put the animal out of his misery , believing that if the horse heals it will mend grace's newly-broken spirit .  eventually , mother and daughter travel alone to montana to be with tom booker ( redford ) , a famed " horse whisperer " who has a gift of calming horses with simple looks and touches , leaving busy husband neill behind .  eventually , they move onto the booker ranch with the rest of tom's family , and annie finds herself falling in love with all things montana , including , naturally , tom , the wise and lonely trainer .  the horse whisperer is delicately made .  i dare say lyrical , since to many people's ear , that word is synonymous with boring .  hardly .  the horse whisperer has little to offer in the way of surprise , but it does have an honesty that is refreshing and consistently enjoyable to watch , especially in the final third of the story .  scott-thomas and johanssen seem like mother and daughter , and you have no doubt believing that the mountain vistas would put these new yorkers under a spell , especially since d . p .  robert richardson's photography casts montana as heaven on earth .   ( a gimmicky but effective technique the filmmakers employ is a switch in aspect ratio from squarish to widescreen when the central location shifts from new york to montana . )  the underrated sam neill turns in perhaps his most heartfelt , emotive performance as the nice-guy husband , who is as authoritive and likeable as tom .  he is indeed a refreshing change from the sexist , lout of a husband so many writers resort to as a short-cut for explaining away the cheating spouse's motivation .  unfortunately , one of the horse whisperer's only flaws is the chemistry between would-be lovers scott-thomas and redford .  i liked both of them , but i didn't necessarily believe that redford would fall for such a cold fish , even if the countryside air thawed her slightly .  luckily ( and curiously ) , this is such a rich and textured movie that it doesn't quite matter-their adultery seems like an afterthought , the obligatory sub-plot that ties many of the characters' complex relationships together .  
pos	 . . . gripping and handsome execution , ( but ) there isn't much about k-19 that's unique or memorable . 
pos	steven soderbergh's digital video experiment is a clever and cutting , quick and dirty look at modern living and movie life . 
neg	though moonlight mile is replete with acclaimed actors and actresses and tackles a subject that's potentially moving , the movie is too predictable and too self-conscious to reach a level of high drama . 
neg	those unfamiliar with mormon traditions may find the singles ward occasionally bewildering . 
pos	this anime was underrated and still is . hardly the dorky kids movie as noted , i still come back to this 10 years after i first saw it . one of the better movies released . the animation while not perfect is good , camera tricks give it a 3d feel and the story is still as good today even after i grew up and saw ground - breakers like neon genesis evangelion and rahxephon . it has nowhere near the depth obviously but try to see it from a lighthearted view . it 's a story to entertain , not to question . still one of my favourites i come back too when i feel like a giggle on over more lighthearted animes . not to say its a childish movies , there are surprisingly sad moments in this and you need a sense of humour to see it all .
pos	the often misunderstood zabriskie point is antonioni 's political film , antonioni 's american film . stylistically , it follows suit after " blow - up " , meaning that the pace is faster than the previous epics , though certainly no less idiosyncratic . basically the common mistake is that the film glorifies the hippie generation . not so . the two protagonists come from vastly different environments . mark from the " rebel " youths , daria from an estate agency corporation . but in true antonioni fashion , they are both alienated , both trying to escape their surroundings . mark leaves a meeting of rebel students and black panthers disappointed with the verbose empty rhetoric , while daria keeps uneasily being on the move with her car . antionioni , the master director , after portraying the rebelling youth as confused and shallow , then moves to the city . an environment saturated by corporatism , billboard advertisements , meaninglessness , that has to keep expanding to accommodate the similar expansion of the population , generating a profit at the same time . it is this environment that the two protagonists escape from , though it seems mostly out of coincidence . indeed , when daria stops by a small village in the outskirts of the desert , the environment is just as suffocating , and the people just as lost cases , best exemplified by an old boxing champion , now reduced to a shadow of himself , sitting around drinking and smoking and talking nonsense . a stunning melancholy sequence , made even more powerful with the inclusion of some half wild children living around , brought in by some " benefactor " but " destroying a genuine piece of american history " . in a not - so - obscure symbolism , there is antonioni 's opinion on the hippies . just a half - positive glimpse in the canvas of human alienation . and then there is the desert , the landscape used to devastating effect , by turns pure and terrifying , primeval , wild and dead . the sequence where the two protagonists make love , " joined " in fantasy by the " flower " generation reflects the similar sequence in " red desert " , where giuliana tells her son a story . it is a colourful intermission in a colourless landscape . a vivid half - fantasy in a suffocating reality . the ending probably belongs to the pantheon of great endings in cinema , the western civilization blown to pieces . a catharsis , an exorcism . antionioni 's two " international " films ( the british " blow - up " and the american " zabriskie point " ) are lesser efforts than the previous masterpieces , but that is largely because of the faster pace and the inevitably contrived settings ( swinging london , flower - power america ) . but when it comes down to it , it 's clear he has n't lost the edge .
pos	let's face it : the $100 million-plus smash that was " goldeneye " was not a good film by any means , and as a bond movie was only marginally better than , say , " a view to a kill " or either of the timothy dalton pictures , by virtue of nice pacing .  but it did revive the series , and granted the producers some new directions in which to take the it ( ie .  the new " m " is a woman ) .   " tomorrow never dies " is the picture " goldeneye " should have been ; it's also the most entertaining bond outing since " the spy who loved me " .  the new picture opens with china considering war with britain after a standard military operation is misconstrued as a hostile threat from an english submarine .  as an attack occurs , the front-page headline is already being prepared , courtesy of carver media .  carver ( pryce ) the man is a deluded magnate , a sort of hybrid of ted turner , bill gates , and peter sellars' german scientist from " dr .  strangelove " ( physically , pryce even recalls sellars in his kubrick days ) .  it's up to james bond to take him down , with assistance , of course , from a wealth of gadgets ( including a multi-purpose cell phone ) , and beautiful women .  enter michelle yeoh , fresh from " supercop " , as a chinese secret agent with her own agenda ; with effortless grace , she cat burgles , dispatches baddies seemingly with the ease of preparing pasta , and refuses the advances of our philandering hero .  they make a great team .   " tomorrow never dies " is a surprisingly entertaining and efficient film , given that at the helm is none other than the director of " turner & hooch " .  spottiswoode has crafted some breathtaking set pieces , each much more intricate and impressive than , for instance , the tank scene in " goldeneye " .  moreover , brosnan has at last settled into the role some feel he was born to play ; last time out , the fate of the franchise rested on his shoulders , and there was noticeable discomfort in his body language .  returned in brosnan's eyes has some of the playfulness he demonstrated for so many years on tv's " remington steele " , as has his deadpan wit .  and though carver's motives are muddy ( when carver explains that " genius is insanity with some success " , screenwriter fierstein is taking a lazy shortcut ) , pryce makes an agreeable , memorable villain .  in the future , they should pursue actors as talented and experienced as pryce to breathe life into these cardboard figures .  there a few too many explosions in " tomorrow never dies " , perhaps so many they qualify as dialogue .  and it could have used a sharper script , though i was amused by the double entendres , none of which i will reveal here .  as it stands , the plot suffers many holes ( i'm not taking about implausibilities ) , and the dialogue tends towards the hackneyed .  now that the elements are in place : modern special effects and stunt work , cool pierce brosnan , kickass female allies . . .  it's time to put them to use in something truly special .  there's no mistaking , however , that " tomorrow never dies " is ideal holiday escapism , and for the first time in perhaps years , you'll walk out wanting more bond movies .  -reviewed december 17 , 1997  
neg	the first in a very long list of things wrong with " i still know what you did last summer " is the title .  think about it for a second .  if the last movie was called " i know what you did last summer " , wouldn't the next movie have to be " i still know what you did two summers ago " ?  if anyone working on this movie had an i . q .  greater than five would have thought about it logically and said , " hey . . .  wait a minute " .  but alas , the people behind this film are obviously idiots , so i won't hold them to that .  what i will hold them to is the fact that they have a pretty bad movie on their hands , even for a teenage slasher flick .  i guess i'm one of the few critics who actually kind of liked the original film ( emphasis on the " kind of " ) .  it wasn't great or anything and maybe not even necessarily good , but at least it didn't have me glancing at my watch every minute or so like it's sequel did .  there are just so many problems with this movie that it's hard trying to figure out where to start .  first of all , i guess , is the setting .  the movie offers no rational reason why the film had to take place in the bahamas , other than the fact that the producers wanted a seaside setting .  exactly why does the fisherman want to go through all the trouble of faking a radio contest to get julie james ( jennifer love hewitt , one of the only survivors of the first film ) and her new college buddies out to the islands before he hacks them up ?  the movie suffers from this kind of logic all the way through .  in one scene , julie is in a tanning booth at a deserted gym when the hooked fisherman with the slicker comes in and seals up the booth so the damsel in distress can't get out , no matter how hard she tries .  when julie discovers she's going to slowly fry to death , she screams for help and her friends come to her rescue .  now , this is all fine and dandy except for one thing ; instead of spending five minutes trying to bust open the booth , why not just turn the freakin' thing off ?  in another scene , one of the characters , after having their significant other all but decapitated by the man in the slicker , says to julie , " just don't tell anybody it rained the whole time . "  oh yeah , i've just been terrorized by a hook wielding sociopath and had some of my best friends gruesomely slaughtered , but hey , i'll crack jokes anyway .  after all , it is in the script .  the film's only saving graces are a few well-executed suspense sequences and a really cool cameo by the " re-animator himself , jeffrey combs .  he brings some good comic relief and life to an otherwise limp movie .  way to go , jeffrey .  i have a hunch that the reason this film fizzles while the first one at least kept it's head above water is the recent absence of writer kevin williamson .  with " scream " and even it's sequel , he displayed a real talent as a screenwriter .  his ear for dialogue and the terrific endings he puts on all his films make him a standout from all the rest of the horror writers , and i think " i still know " has really suffered by not having him on board .  the cool atmosphere is still there this time around , but i just didn't like the characters or the writing as much as i did in the first one .  even though the movie doesn't have williamson , it still has a hacky ending , trying to do what kevin did with the first two " scream " s by ( some may consider this a spoiler , but if you have seen any horror movies whatsoever , then you should be able to guess the identity of the madman within twenty minutes ) having two killers and , this time , having one of them being a family member to the other .  i think someone in the audience put it best when , after the movie had ended with another " the killer is back ! "  cliffhanger , he said " who is this time , the grandma ? "  all in all , " i still know " tries to be as successful as the first the film was , but really fails in the attempt .  i mean , it's okay when slasher movies rip-off each other , but when they start copying themselves . . .  
pos	the pain , loneliness and insecurity of the screenwriting process are vividly and painfully brought to slovenly life in this self-deprecating , biting and witty feature written by charlie kaufman and his twin brother , donald , and directed by spike jonze . 
pos	excellent performances from jacqueline bisset and martha plimpton grace this deeply touching melodrama . 
pos	the fast runner' transports the viewer into an unusual space
pos	earns its laughs from stock redneck 'types' and from the many , many moments when we recognize even without the elizabethan prose , the play behind the thing . 
neg	it never quite makes it to the boiling point , but manages to sustain a good simmer for most of its running time . 
pos	you can take the grandkids or the grandparents and never worry about anyone being bored . . . audience is a sea of constant smiles and frequent laughter . 
pos	a remarkable movie with an unsatisfying ending , which is just the point . 
pos	a backstage must-see for true fans of comedy . 
pos	campanella gets the tone just right -- funny in the middle of sad in the middle of hopeful . 
pos	 " nicholas nickleby " is a perfect family film to take everyone to since there's no new " a christmas carol " out in the theaters this year . charlie hunnam has the twinkling eyes , repressed smile and determined face needed to carry out a dickensian hero . 
neg	hav plenty , as we are told in the beginning and reminded during the film , is a true story .  life itself is a series of true stories , but most are not movie material .  as scripted , directed , and acted by cinematic newcomer christopher scott cherot , hav plenty limps along at best .  its dialog is so stilted - " you know what they say , 'no women ; no cry . ' "  - that the actors are content to read the screenplay rather than invest much energy in trying to act it .  in the story , lee plenty ( cherot ) is a 28-year-old author and teaching assistant .  the movie , which happens mainly over the new year's holiday , consists of a series of incidents in which various single and married women try to kiss lee or take him to bed .  since he consistently refuses , caroline gooden ( tammi katherine jones ) figures that he must be gay .  eventually he and havilland " hav " savage ( chenoa maxwell ) get together , proving that he wasn't gay after all , just picky .  sexy women can sit on his lap and ask him to go to bed with them , but he will not even kiss them .  he's a man who knows his mind , which he frequently shares directly with the audience in a series of trite and overly cute monologues .  filled with wealthy african-americans , the story is closest in tone to love jones , which was better .  hav plenty's story doesn't go anywhere .  at the end it subjects us to lee plenty's new film , which is a movie of the movie we've just seen , but with even worse acting .   " remember folks that , as outrageous as this all seems , this is a true story . "  hav tells the camera , but the problem is that it's not outrageous at all or even the least bit interesting .  hav plenty isn't so much a bad film as it is a total waste of the audience's time .  hav plenty runs 1 : 32 .  it is rated r for profanity and would be fine for most teenagers .  
pos	a surprisingly funny movie . 
neg	arty gay film . 
neg	alarms for duvall's throbbing sincerity and his elderly propensity for patting people while he talks . 
neg	the most ill-conceived animated comedy since the 1991 dog rover dangerfield . 
pos	this movie documents a transformative experience for a group of young men , and the experience of watching it is in itself transformative for the viewer . few movies even aspire to this level of transcendence , and i can think of no other movie -- documentary or drama -- that achieves it . there is no other movie in which i have both laughed so much and cried so much . yes , it is about dmd and accessible travel ; on those issues alone , it is a worthwhile venture , but it is more . it is about friendship . it is about life itself , about living every day that you 're alive . and it 's a great , fun , adventurous narrative . this is why god created the cinema ! see this movie ! ! !
pos	though the plot is predictable , the movie never feels formulaic , because the attention is on the nuances of the emotional development of the delicate characters . 
neg	eh . 
pos	the film is reasonably entertaining , though it begins to drag two-thirds through , when the melodramatic aspects start to overtake the comedy . 
pos	the warm presence of zhao benshan makes the preposterous lying hero into something more than he reasonably should be . 
pos	remember the kind of movie we were hoping " ecks vs . sever " or " xxx " was going to be ? this is it . 
pos	eric schweig and graham greene both exude an air of dignity that's perfect for the proud warrior that still lingers in the souls of these characters . 
pos	it's rare to find a film to which the adjective 'gentle' applies , but the word perfectly describes pauline & paulette . 
neg	as david letterman and the onion have proven , the worst of tragedies can be fertile sources of humor , but lawrence has only a fleeting grasp of how to develop them . 
neg	a backdrop of new year's eve in 1981 would seem to lend itself to a great party movie .  the decor possibilities are endless - disco balls had yet to migrate into the dark corners of the attic , big hair was worth its weight in aquanet , and the louder the fashion , the better the look .  but despite this setting , these details and a soundtrack that includes some 40-plus irresistible hits from the early days of the me decade , something is inherently wrong with " 200 cigarettes . "  a better title for this nostalgic mess would be " 50 missed opportunities . "  what is it that makes this retro-comedy such a downer ?  it's certainly not the cast , which includes enough hot , young talent for several movies .  there's courtney love , cementing her reputation as a serious actress ; christina ricci , hot off her shoulda-been-nominated turn in " the opposite of sex " ; paul rudd , who gets even more appealing with every role ; kate hudson , inheriting some fine acting genes from mom goldie hawn ; and affleck brothers ben and casey , two of the best things about " good will hunting . "  perhaps the question is this : what drew these and other immensely talented actors to such a dreary project ?  maybe it looked good on paper .   " 200 cigarettes " is composed of a series of vignettes , as various characters make their way through new york's festively decorated east village to a holiday bash thrown by a jittery bundle of nerves named monica ( martha plimpton , all dressed up in her best cyndi lauper ) .  among the potential guests are likeable cad kevin ( rudd ) and his best friend lucy ( love ) , busy bickering over his recent break-up , and a clumsy but seemingly charming bartender ( ben affleck ) who opens his mouth only to spew forth bad pick-up lines .  more subplots - _many_ more - dot the big picture , but those listed above are the only ones worth noting in a positive light .  all the other story tangents are as frazzled as a cokehead trying to solve a rubick's cube .  ricci and gaby hoffman grate as two ronkonkoma gals ( the kind that have trouble pronouncing hard consonants ) out to have a high time in the big city .  infamously acerbic comedienne janeane garofalo is wasted in what amounts to a several-scene cameo .  hudson , as a pretty-in-pink klutz recently devirginized by a reprehensible ladies' man ( jay mohr ) , trips , pukes and gets smeared with dog poop .  are we laughing yet ?  the film boils down to a mixture of the good , the bad and the gaudy , with the latter two overtaking the former .  game performances - especially by love , rudd and plimpton - are almost shot down by the bizarrely colorful parts and a constantly roving focus , here a combination that mostly sputters when it should crackle .  too many sidetracks rate as uninteresting and have little payoff until a lengthy final montage where we find out many of the performers served as one night stands for each other .  if this is " 200 cigarettes , " then get me 200 nicotine patches .  
pos	one of the greatest family-oriented , fantasy-adventure movies ever . 
neg	a didactic and dull documentary glorifying software anarchy . 
neg	plot : set in the future , a courier has uploaded some data into a " hard drive " that resides in his head , and must now escape the bad guys who are after that very important information .  since he overloaded his " hard drive " , he's also racing against the clock before the information seeps into his brain and kills him .  critique : incoherent , boring , one-act drivel with no suspense , horribly unbelievable futuristic environment , bad dialogue , career-defining bad acting by keanu reeves and a hilarious ending .  it's too bad because the premise of the film was interesting , but unfortunately for my friends and i , this movie turned out to be just as bad as everyone had warned us .  it's one of those films that makes you start laughing half-way through , when you realize that most of the actors in it suck , the location shots are filmed in dark " junkyard " type areas which they would like to have us believe to be futuristic ( whatever . . . ) , and all the sets look like . . . . well ,  sets .  there is also absolutely no arc to this story .  it basically starts off with keanu uploading info into his brain , and then a bunch of folks chasing him from place to place until a laughable ending puts a stop to the former uneventful proceedings .  gibson should stick to writing novels and " x-files " episodes , since his segue into the paranormal tv series was much more entertaining than any of this garbage .  some other hilarities of this film include dolph lundgren as some futuristic jesus character whose supposed to kick ass , henry rollins as a pumped-up cyber-doctor or something , and ice-t as some kind of a hobo dude with paint all over his face ( don't ask ) .  the ending is the funniest with some robot dolphin and a stupid ghost-lady from inside the computer doing some stuff that no one really cares about by that point .  i'm ashamed to say this film was shot in my hometown of montreal , canada , but sadly enough for us all , it was .  some of the cyber-travelling special effects were okay ( hence , the 2/10 ) , but overall , it's one of those bad movies that's just funny to watch and cringe at .  thankfully for keanu , he redeemed his sci-fi career with 1999's the matrix ( 7 . 5/10 ) .  it's too bad that he has yet to redeem his lack of acting talent .  little known facts about this film and its stars : as of 1999 , director robert longo never directed another full-feature film .  hmmm . . . now  isn't that odd ?   : ) writer william gibson immigrated from the us to canada in 1968 , after being rejected for the draft .  he lived in toronto at first , but since 1972 , has made vancouver his home .  his 1984 novel " neuromancer " and its sequels 1986's " count zero " and 1988's " mona lisa overdrive " are generally considered to be the definitive works of the " cyberpunk " science-fiction sub-genre .  this film garnered keanu reeves a nomination in the " worst actor " category in the 1996 razzie awards .  
pos	what enlivens this film , beyond the astute direction of cardoso and beautifully detailed performances by all of the actors , is a note of defiance over social dictates . 
neg	little more than a stylish exercise in revisionism whose point . . . is no doubt true , but serves as a rather thin moral to such a knowing fable . 
pos	bruce willis and sixth sense director m . night shyamalan re-team to tell the story of david dunne ( willis ) , a stadium security guard who has been having some problems at home that are affecting his relationship with his wife and child .  on a return trip from new york where he was trying to get a job , dunne is in a horrible train accident that he is the only survivor of .  to make things even stranger , dunne has also escaped the accident completely unscathed .  a comic book art dealer named elijah price ( samuel l . jackson ) , who was born with a degenerative bone disease that causes his bones to be so brittle that they break constantly , has been seeking out someone like dunne his entire life .  price felt that there had to be someone exactly the opposite of him . . .  someone whose bones would be so strong that they would never break .  price contacts dunne and convinces him to come down to his gallery for a talk where he suggests that dunne could quite possibly be something akin to a superhero from the comic books price used to read when he was a child .  dunne doesn't believe him at first , but price assists him in discovering his " powers " and helps him hone his craft until he discovers what his true calling really is .  writer/director m . night shyamalan had a tough act to follow with his sleeper hit the sixth sense .  how exactly does one follow up on one of the biggest and most popular thrillers in recent years ?  for shyamalan , the answer must have come as easy to him as nuclear physics does to kindergartners .  does this new film measure up to his breakthrough box office smash , though ?  the answer to that question is not a very easy one , either .  as far as pacing goes , the sixth sense seemed almost interminable .  it wasn't until the surprise ending was revealed that i realized the film was actually intentionally ( and perfectly ) paced in order to give the audience ample time to re-connect all of the information they had seen once the climax had been reached .  for unbreakable , shyamalan gave the film a much more satisfying pace which , in many ways , blows away the film that had come before .  the story moves along at a steady pace and shyamalan's direction is excellent , with the camera almost constantly moving .  there are tons of great shots in the film , not least of which is a conversation that opens the film between willis' character and another train passenger .  the shot seems as though it were filmed like we were watching the two talk from between the train seats and the camera steadily glides back and forth between the two actors as they speak .  also very impressive is the film's score by james newton howard ( who also scored shyamalan's sixth sense and the similar film stir of echoes , as well as this year's dinosaur ) .  several of the scenes are driven by a very catchy beat and help to increase the tempo of the film .  one of the best examples of this is a scene in which dunne goes into a train station to " exercise " his powers .  the music , in combination with the stellar visuals , really go a long way towards making this an incredible movie .  if there was any one soundtrack i would make a must purchase this year , this one would be it .  the film also boasts some great performances , including a precocious child actor trying to vie for the oscar throne left vacant by haley joel osment .  willis turns in a great performance as the sad sack dunne , who just can't seem to figure out why he's been depressed for the last few years .  his character almost seems pathetic when we first meet him , but he eventually grows into his own under elijah's tutelage .  jackson is one of the better actors of our time , and here he turns in yet another great performance as the ever injured elijah .  though his hairstyle is absurd , jackson seems to infuse such a great deal of pain into his role that the mortar board hairdo can easily be overlooked .  robin wright penn's role seems slightly underwritten , but she still manages to get across the intense hurt of her character's need for love from her husband and her desire to make things work again .  spencer treat clark , as the dunne's young son jeremy , shows that shyamalan still has a knack for picking young actors , and he turns in one of the most competent performances in the film .  out of all the characters , jeremy's is perhaps the most emotional , and clark does a great job with the role .  where the film does lose points though , is during its " surprise " ending .  shyamalan has said in interviews that he was going to do an ending that blew away the one presented by the sixth sense , but i found myself saying " that was it ? ! "  when unbreakable revealed its own ending .  it's not that the ending is bad , it's just that the ending doesn't quite have the emotional punch that the other film's did .  plus , it almost seems like it sets itself up for sequels ( and i won't reveal the ending here , but you'll understand what i mean when you see it ) .  essentially , what all of this means is that shyamalan has made another good film with unbreakable .  the only real problem is that the ending doesn't quite fill the shadow left by its predecessor .  as long as it isn't held to the standard that sixth sense set ( which it ultimately will be ) , it should be a remarkably well liked film .  one thing seems clear , though .  shyamalan definitely has an affinity for comic books that he would like to share with the world and many comic book fans will also delight the vision he presents in this film .  
neg	 if the predictability of bland comfort food appeals to you , then the film is a pleasant enough dish . 
neg	pumpkin wants to have it both ways . 
pos	it's rather strange too have two computer animated talking ant movies come out in a single year , but that is what disney and pixar animation ; s latest film represents .  while a bugs life isn't nearly as deep as it's predecessor , dreamwork's antz , it is just as funny .  a bug's life centers , appropriately , around the life of an ant , named flik .  flik , cutely voiced by newsradio's david foley , hates sticking too tradition and attempts too find new ways of harvesting food and other task .  when one of his inventions causes the offering too be completely lost , the leaders of the colony send him out on a mission too get him out of the way .  the offering is food that a vile group of grasshoppers force the ants too harvest for them .  the leader of the grasshoppers is hopper , who is fiendishly voiced by oscar winner kevin spacey .  when the offering is lost hopper is very upset and he vows to return shortly too retrieve double the amount of food .  when the leaders of the ant colony send flik out on his mission , they never dream he will be successful , they just hope they can get him out of the way so they can harvest the extra food .  flik's mission is too hire some warrior bugs too fight off the grasshoppers when they return .  instead flik accidentally hires circus performing bugs , who he mistakenly assumes are warriors .  when he returns with the `warriors' , the town is ecstatic until they find out the truth about their heroes .  a bug's life has animation that is simply stunning .  the sheer uniqueness of the day to day bug life is very imaginative .  together with the great voice acting , this film is the perfect holiday family film .  its main weakness is that it couldn't beat antz to the theaters , making it seem like stale material .  
neg	it wants to be thought of as a subversive little indie film , but it has all the qualities of a modern situation comedy . 
neg	manages to show life in all of its banality when the intention is quite the opposite . 
pos	trapped won't score points for political correctness , but it may cause parents a few sleepless hours -- a sign of its effectiveness . 
neg	it's a rare treat when a quality horror film is released in the theater .  and unfortunately with man's best friend , we'll be waiting a while longer .  the film stars ally sheedy and lance henrikson in a tale of bio-genetics gone wrong .  sheedy plays a nosy reporter whose need for a " good " story provokes her to snoop inside of emax , a poorly guarded million dollar bio-lab that she finds herself effortlessly intruding .  the result : she unleashes the experimental wonder dog named max , a german shepherd with genetic recombination allowing it to swallow like a snake , camouflage like a chameleon , climb trees like a leopard , and attack with the strength of tiger .  max takes a liking to sheedy , and she finds herself protecting the animal from the cruel technological realm of emax , owned by henrikson .  well , it doesn't take long before the hormonally unstable biohazard unleashes his jowls upon the unsuspecting suburban landscape which offers max juicy leg of mailman , etc . . .  sheedy is a boring non-presence on the screen , tripping through the enormous plot chasms neglected by the writer/director ( i apologize for a lack of credits .  i suppose i was eager to leave the theater , and in my rush , forgot to take note of the director , writer , producer , etc . . . ) .  henrikson offered the only relief from the contrived narration of the script , giving his character as much development as he could considering the flat dialogue plaguing the film .  the movie depends upon it's ability to impress the audience with animal special effects , but all it presents is a dog that can growl , open door handles with his paw , sit , roll over , play dead , and sick .  the rest of the special effects were so poor , i found them offensive .  the film attains sub-mediocrity , an unambitious film at best .  horror fans might find that cujo offers a better bite .  
pos	we get some truly unique character studies and a cross-section of americana that hollywood couldn't possibly fictionalize and be believed . 
neg	 . . . pays tribute to heroes the way julia roberts hands out awards--with phony humility barely camouflaging grotesque narcissism . 
neg	an ugly , revolting movie . 
neg	you see robert de niro singing - and dancing to - west side story show tunes . choose your reaction : a . ) that sure is funny ! b . ) that sure is pathetic ! 
pos	judith and zaza's extended bedroom sequence . . . is so intimate and sensual and funny and psychologically self-revealing that it makes most of what passes for sex in the movies look like cheap hysterics . 
neg	for those interested in the true spirit of moviemaking - or what's left of it in mainstream hollywood - movie which are star vehicles are terrible things .  as a rule , the ignore general principles of cinema because they are not made to advance the media but rather to advance the career of a particular actor .  an actor might be chosen on the up-and-up , to give him exposure ; or he might be chosen on the way down to hand him a paycheck .  generally , though , the actor doesn't matter , and soldier , the latest from the beleaguered warner brothers , exemplifies this : the picture lacks pizazz .  the star for the vehicle in this case is kurt russell , otherwise known as the man of thirty words or less .  russell plays todd , a human trained from birth in the ways of waging war and becoming emotionally distanced from the carnage he has wrought .  the movie lets us see this degenerate process , but by the time the real plot starts , we're into todd's later years .  he's about to be replaced by a new breed of soldiers , ones who , instead of being trained * from * birth , are genetically selected * before * birth .  the pride of this class - caine 607 ( jason scott lee ) - will be our villain , and you know he's the villain because he has a staring contest with our hero near the movie's start .  between the two leads , less than a full typed page of dialogue is spoken , and it's possible to imagine a script which is ninety percent stage direction .  director paul anderson , who helmed last year's icy thriller , event horizon , doesn't show any inventiveness here and instead is content to let the actions play out on screen ad nauseam .  todd , upon being replaced , is left to die on a garbage planet ; but in order to stretch the running time out , the villains return to the garbage planet on a " routine patrol " and set the stage for the final firefight .  events are predictable from the time that the setups are made , and neither anderson nor scriptwriter david peoples attempts to show any creativeness here .  the most annoying plot facet is the reason that the whole of the movie comes to be : todd fails to show physical superiority against caine - in fact , not even todd and two of his companions can best the baddie - but near the end of the movie he shows remarkable prowess with automatic weaponry .  it's not as though todd undergoes any significant character changes throughout the plot of the story , and so the plot has a very canned feeling about it .  the best route through this disaster is to take it lighthearted in spirit , and treat it as a parody of typical action fare , like universal soldier .  a strict interpretation , however , reveals an unmistakeable and unforgiveable lack of style , class , or substance ; and by next year , a large percentage of the people who have seen this will have taped it off of network television .  
pos	 . . . an interesting slice of history . 
neg	the setting turns out to be more interesting than any of the character dramas , which never reach satisfying conclusions . 
pos	though writer/director bart freundlich's film ultimately becomes a simplistic story about a dysfunctional parent-child relationship , it has some special qualities and the soulful gravity of crudup's anchoring performance . 
pos	i have recently seen this movie due to jake 's recent success with brokeback mountain . i figured i would see the movies that i missed . i had no expectations going into the film so was astounded that i had missed this movie at all . it 's a gripping father and son tale , and it is also an underdog story . i even shed a tear at the finale of this wonderful tale . this movie appeals to all ages . the only reason i give it a 9 out of 10 is that it slows down a little in the middle , but it comes back strong in the end . the acting was great , the story was magnificent , and the cinematography was captivating given the setting of the film . go see this movie ! rent it , buy it , watch it , love it ! i know i did !
neg	plays as hollow catharsis , with lots of tears but very little in the way of insights . 
pos	visually , 'santa clause 2' is wondrously creative . 
pos	 . . . rogers's mouth never stops shut about the war between the sexes and how to win the battle . 
neg	as we have come to learn -- as many times as we have fingers to count on -- jason is a killer who doesn't know the meaning of the word 'quit . ' the filmmakers might want to look it up . 
pos	there's a disreputable air about the whole thing , and that's what makes it irresistible . 
pos	an incredibly clever and superbly paced caper filled with scams within scams within scams . 
neg	more wide - eyed , hysterical 50s hyper - cheerfulness that gives new meaning to anti - social , pathological behaviour . danza and grayson will leave you begging for mercy . it 's a shame that all the people involved in the making of this movie are now dead ( or in nursing homes ) . i kinda thought about suing them for torture . as this movie started unleashing its shamelessly aggressive operatic assault onto my poor , defenseless ear - drums , i felt instant , strong pain envelop my entire being . that damn muscular vibrato can shatter soviet tanks into tiny bits , nevermind glass . " why did n't you switch the channel if you did n't like it ? " , you might ask angrily . fair point , fair point ... the answer is that i wanted to , but the pain was so sudden and excruciating that i fell to the floor , writhing in agony . with my last ounces of energy , i tried to reach the remote but could n't . a silly little fisherman with the questionable talent of singing with an annoying opera voice is discovered by niven , who then proceeds to " pigmalionize " him . lanza is in love with asymmetrical grayson , but she predictably treats him with contempt until they finally hook up . this may seem like a rather thin plot , but this noisy movie is so chock - full of singing and music that there is barely any dialogue at all . this movie is relentless . forget about torturing hippies and war prisoners with slayer 's " reign in blood " ( as in a south park episode ) . whatever little conversation there is amongst the silly adults that infest this strange 50s musical world , it 's all infantile - as if they were all 6 year - olds impersonating grown - ups . i can only envy people who find movies like this funny . it must be great being easy - to - please : what a world of wonder would open up to me if only i could enjoy any silly old gag as hilarious , gut - busting comedy .   but let 's examine this phenomenon , the 50s musical . my best guess is that 50s musicals offered the more day - dreaming idealists among us a glimpse into utopia or heaven ( depending on whether you 're church - going or lenin's - tomb - going ) , or at least very cheesy version of these fantasy - inspired places . ttono is more akin to a representation of hell , but that 's just me . i do n't seem to " get " musicals . people talk , there is a story - but then all - of - a - sudden everyone starts singing for about 4 minutes after which they abruptly calm down and then pretend as if nothing unusual happened ! when you think about it , musicals are stranger than any science - fiction film . worse yet , ttono ( my favourite type of pizza , btw ) is not just a 50s musical , but one with opera squealing . opera is proof that there is such a thing as over - training a voice - to the point where it becomes an ear - piercing weapon rather than a means of bringing the listener pleasure . the clearest example of this travesty is when lanza and grayson unite their dark side vocal powers for a truly unbearable duet . i tried lowering the volume . i lowered it from 18 to 14 . then from 14 to 10 . then 8 . i ended up lowering it to a 1 , which is usually so low that it 's only heard by specially - trained dogs and certain types of marsupials , and yet i still could hear those two braying like donkeys ! take the scene in the small boat in the river . danza starts off with one of his deafening , brain - killing tunes , and then ... nothing . no animals anywhere to be seen . even the crocodiles , who are mostly deaf , have all but left . if you look carefully , you might even see the trees change colour , from green to yellow , in a matter of minutes . no , this was not a continuity error , it was plain old torture of the flora . and those trees were just matte paintings ! imagine how real trees would have reacted . the reason glass breaks when a high c is belched out of the overweight belly of an operatic screamer is not due to any laws of physics relating to waves and frequency , but because glass is only human - hence can take only so much pain before committing suicide through spontaneous self - explosion . i can listen to the loudest , least friendly death metal band for hours , but give me just a minute of a soprano and i get a splitting headache .
pos	there are a couple of things that elevate " glory " above most of its ilk , most notably the mere presence of duvall . 
pos	what lifts the film high above run-of-the-filth gangster flicks is its refusal to recognise any of the signposts , as if discovering a way through to the bitter end without a map . 
neg	the kind of film that leaves you scratching your head in amazement over the fact that so many talented people could participate in such an ill-advised and poorly executed idea . 
neg	the dialogue is cumbersome , the simpering soundtrack and editing more so . 
pos	saved from being merely way-cool by a basic , credible compassion . 
pos	some of the visual flourishes are a little too obvious , but restrained and subtle storytelling , and fine performances make this delicate coming-of-age tale a treat . 
pos	sturdy , entertaining period drama . . . both caine and fraser have their moments . 
neg	go , girls , right down the reality drain . 
pos	another entertaining romp from robert rodriguez . 
neg	it all unfolds predictably , and the adventures that happen along the way seem repetitive and designed to fill time , providing no real sense of suspense . 
pos	the early and middle passages are surprising in how much they engage and even touch us . this is not a classical dramatic animated feature , nor a hip , contemporary , in-jokey one . it's sort of in-between , and it works . 
neg	a clash between the artificial structure of the story and the more contemporary , naturalistic tone of the film . . . 
neg	like being trapped at a perpetual frat party . . . how can something so gross be so boring ? 
neg	leaks treacle from every pore . 
neg	an uneven look into a grim future that doesn't come close to the level of intelligence and visual splendour that can be seen in other films based on philip k . dick stories . 
pos	the story may not be new , but australian director john polson , making his american feature debut , jazzes it up adroitly . 
neg	our culture is headed down the toilet with the ferocity of a frozen burrito after an all-night tequila bender  and i know this because i've seen 'jackass : the movie . '
neg	too many scenarios in which the hero might have an opportunity to triumphantly sermonize , and too few that allow us to wonder for ourselves if things will turn out okay . 
pos	i want to correct what i wrote in a former retrospective of david lean's war picture .  i still think that it doesn't deserve being the number 13 in the american film institute's list of the 100 greatest american movies .  and i think that lumet's " 12 angry men " , wilder's " witness for the prosecution " and kubrick's " paths of glory " would have been better choices for the best picture oscar in 1958 .  but i can't deny the importance of " the bridge on the river kwai " - cinematically and in its contents .  the film is set in burma in 1943 .  a bataillon of british soldiers in japanese war captivity is forced by the japanese to build a strategically momentous railway bridge over the river kwai .  but the british commanding officer , colonel nicholson ( alec guinness ) , insists - corresponding to the geneva conventions - that his officers needn't work as simple workmen .  struggling toughly , col . nicholson forces the japanese commandant , col . saito ( sessue hayakawa ) , to give way in this respect .  afterwards col . nicholson assiduously commits himself for the building of the bridge .  he considers it an opportunity to raise his men's morale , and he wants to prove superior british capabilities to the japanese .  but the british high command sends a few soldiers who shall destroy the bridge , among them the american shears ( william holden ) - an escapee from the japanese prison camp - and the british major warden ( jack hawkins ) . . .  a flaw of the picture is the clich ? d characterization of the japanese people .  they are presented as if they were intellectually inferior to the british - as if the japanese were incapable of building a bridge .  and the film doesn't consistently question the military spirit as kubrick does in " paths of glory " .  lean seems rather fascinated by the military hierarchies .  this is also perceptible in the conversations between col . nicholson and col . saito .  in this regard it is symptomatic that shears , who doubts the military logic , is a somehow unpleasant person in the film .  the audience is supposed to applaud col . nicholson's perseverance concerning the question if his officers shall work on the bridge or not .  the spectators are supposed to neglect the risks col . nicholson takes for his men .   ( the plot by-passes these risks . )  that means , the picture isn't perfect .  but it has a lot of virtues as well .  it shows the " madness " of war and what war can produce in people's minds .  it shows how col . nicholson becomes possessed by the idea of being a hero and that others ( like shears ) get cynics .  and " the bridge on the river kwai " is an interesting study of characters with clashing interests .  these points and the sometimes ironic dialogue make this film an anti-war film ( despite the inconsistencies in the treatment of this theme ) .  david lean's effective and atmospherically perfect direction creates a high suspense , especially in the dramatic ( though not wholly plausible ) showdown .  alec guinness does a magnificent job of bringing col . nicholson to life and making him such an interesting character .  the other actors deliver very good performances as well .  jack hildyard's fine color cinematography and the apt score are also helpful .  i like this extraordinary film despite its weaknesses .   ( c ) karl rackwitz ( klein k ? ris , germany , 1999 )  
neg	when you get to the scenes that involve albert brooks without his shirt ... try not to gag on a fur ball . i like albert brooks . i 've seen most , if not all of his movies but it was the first time seeing this one . modern romance is an interesting take on the subject of love . there are few movies that handle the desperation of love as well or as overtly as modern romance , although 1979 's chilly scenes of winter comes very close . they both essentially deal with obsessed men that are too psychologically attracted / obsessed to their respective women . where - as chilly scenes of winter borders on the subject stalking , this movie has a more grounded foundation with the subject of love because both people are already in a relationship .. and out of the relationship .. and back in it again . and because it 's a movie that was released in 1981 , it is of its time in terms of styles and such . that 's the main reason i like this movie . my basic rule when it comes to movies is " if it sucks at least it may have some historic relevance " , you know time capsule stuff . which leads me to the horrific scenes of albert brooks sans shirt . the man is hair . very hair . like he 's wearing a black curly fur sweater - hairy . and what 's worse is he almost looks burn victim - hairy . it 's not a pleasant sight and the scenes with him without a shirt go on and on . back in the early 80 's hairy men were seen as normal and nothing shocking . but in 2009 the sight of something like this is just plain revolting . sorry , albert ! i wish at some point someone said " hey let 's try this scene but with you wearing a simple t - shirt , i mean you might scare people " . it 's just really bad and i feel sorry for the poor pretty actress that had to deal with albert brooks naked body on top of hers . she was probably pulling out his hairs from her teeth for days after that . anyway , it 's an ok movie . it could have been better if i had n't see albert brooks without his shirt for what seemed like 10 long continuous minutes because that will forever taint my viewing of this movie .
neg	in its chicken heart , crush goes to absurd lengths to duck the very issues it raises . 
neg	a dark , dull thriller with a parting shot that misfires . 
pos	director benoit jacquot , making his first opera-to-film translation with tosca , conveys the heaving passion of puccini's famous love-jealousy- murder-suicide fandango with great cinematic innovation . 
neg	and just when you thought joblo was getting a little soft around the corners , not rating anything lower than your standard " this movie sucks " , along comes this cinematic atrocity and he's forced to take out his secret weapon and spray it with a stench so thick , even the bravest movie-goer would think twice about seeing this waste of time .  yes , despite being a third sequel to a successful original movie , the latest highlander doesn't seem to have anything going for it .  oh stinky movie , let me count thee ways . . .  plot : ( from what i understood ) a really bad highlander dude comes to the present looking to whack out the nice highlander dudes in order to gain their power and become the mightiest immortal . . . or  something along those lines .  critique : a complete and utter mess .  disjointed , incoherent , boring , corny , filled with bad dialogue . . . and  that's just the first thirty minutes !  this film doesn't seem to know what to do with itself .  it's confusing to anyone who doesn't know the series ( i include myself in that group ) and apparently idiotic to those who do know the series ( i include die-hard highlander fan the arrow in that group ) .  the film doesn't explain anything about itself . . . it  just goes from one inexplicable situation to another .  one moment they're in the present time , the next moment , they're in italy in the 1600s .  why ?  who knows .  what are they talking about ?  no idea .  flashbacks mixed in with the present , mixed in with a few spontaneously cheesy fight sequences every now and again , and i even remember seeing one flashback scene which went even further into its own flashback scene ! !  hullo . . . ? ! ?  confused yet ?  i was and i basically stopped giving a crap about anyone in the film when i realized that neither the writer or director was interested in presenting me with any kind of semblance of a story .  random swordplay , mad max-like dudes showing up in motorcycles in the 1800s ?  or were they in the present at that time ?  who knows . . . and to be honest . . . who  seriously cares !  this series should have been shot in the head and put out of its own misery a long time ago , but sadly , someone at the studio decided that it still had a little life left in it .  please , please . . . for the love of god and all that is holy in the world of movie-making , and mostly out of respect for those who loved the original film , put this series to bed and end it !  even christopher lambert knew enough to play second fiddle to adrian paul in this one .  the director also tries to do the best he can with the muddled material , but all he could come up with is plenty of slo-mo action , some fast-motion fight scenes and lots of smoke everywhere .  and is there anything spectacular about the sword-play or fight scenes ?  nope .  and i think we all could have done without all those zooming lambert face close-ups . . . yipes ,  the man is not aging gracefully , is he ?  oh boy , and i haven't even gotten around to the greatest piece of over-acting that i've seen in years .  the man who plays kell in this movie , bruce payne , should get a ham trophy for literally chewing up every piece of scenery that he gets near .  overacting is not a hobby for this guy . . . it's  a living !  he's also very funny , not purposely though .  all in all , the movie stinks .  nuff said .  
pos	although the subject matter may still be too close to recent national events , the film works - mostly due to its superior cast of characters . 
pos	its sheer dynamism is infectious . 
pos	 " the celebration " is one of an elite kind of films that is completely absorbant .  you know , where you sit down to watch it , and no matter what you've heard about it before , you just can't help but be totally drawn into its story and shocked by every single turn that occurs .  i prefer films like these because these are what the best kind of films are like .  i don't really feel there are to be any real " rules " for cinema ; a film can do anything , as long as it makes it work .  but i do ask that all films have one thing in common : they create experiences .  when i watch a film , no matter what kind of film it is , i want to be able to take certain memories along with me .   " the celebration " is great because it's chock full of those .  it creates a world so completely realistic that everything that occurs is as memorable as the little instances of life that catch your attention and stay with you for the rest of your life .  and then it makes things just a tad bit farscial , just to make sure you're paying attention , which you are because what transpires is just so goddam interesting that if you were to ever feel bored , then you're of your attention span needs a bit of a tuning-up .  the story takes place at the extravagant home of an aging patriarch ( henning mortizen ) , who has just turned 60 and is having a party thrown for him .  all his friends and family turn up , and for the first half hour , we get introduced to everyone , simplistically and realistically ( no aggravatingly condescending posing for the camera deals here ) .  the eldest son , christian ( ulrich thomsen , looking a bit like a young malcolm mcdowell ) , is the first to be seen in the film , walking to his father's home .  his brother , michael ( thomas bo larsen ) , drives by , pulls over , greets him , then kicks his family out of the car , forcing them to walk to the estate , just so christian can be comfortable .  we then meet helene ( paprika steen ) , their sister , a woman who always seems to be stressed-out , who invites the driver of her car ( gbatokai dakinah ) , an american , to to come join her at the party she's going to .  once they're all there and settled in , the party begins , and as custom , the eldest son has to make a speech to his dad , so christian stands up , at the head of the table , and reveals the film's punchline : his father raped all his children at a young age .  but since this is a family/friends affair , his confession becomes more detested than the supposed truth , and is simply brushed off despite his efforts , and what transpires is sorta like jerry springer crossed with jean renoir , and it's all terribly interesting to watch .  twists occur , and soon the film has taken on a nearly-farsical nature , but still seems realistic because the people involved really feel like they could reach such ends .  the most notorious thing about this film , which has been getting the most notice , though , is that the director , thomas vinterberg has shot it in a completely awkward fashion .  as a member of the danish filmmakers clan , dogme 95 , a group that has vowed to oppose " the auteur concept , make-up , illusions , and dramaturgical predictability " so that they may " purge film so that once again the inner lives of the characters justify the plot . "  i have not seen " breaking the waves , " the other notable film by a member of this group ( lars von trier , to be exact ) , but " the celebration " works exquisitely in this department .  it feels like reality , like you're actually watching real people and not actors , and as a major pointer , has been shot on video .  as a result , it looks more like the home movies you never dare shot of your family than an actual film , but always wanted to .  we see key moments in people's lives that they wouldn't dare show to the world , and it captures the farscial comedy of life so accurately and acutely that this style , as ironically-showmanship as it really is , works perfectly for the nature of the film .  the key , though , to this film , and the reason it's not just a cool danish import , is because this film is not about revealing the truth as much as it is about the way people react to such an explosive truth .  throughout the film , we see a completely realized debate over the truth and the effects it has on the lives of those who have learned to live with lies , a debate so three-dimensional that it could easily blow oliver stone and his the-truth-at-all-costs reasoning out of the water .  of course it was not right for the father to rape his children , and of course , they couldn't have fought back then , and of course this has created scarring suppression inside them .  and yes , it's thearapeutic for one to release the truth years later , when they know it could easily destroy the one who emotionally destroyed them earlier .  but then again , the father , after all , is not a totally bad guy , and we can see the emotional complications that arise thanks to a performance by mortizen which is just so great and touching that while we do believe that he could have raped his children years earlier , we also see a man who has also learned to live with what he's done , and deep down , feels true guilt that is only now beginning to surface .  the final scene , involving mortizen and everyone else , is utterly devastating , thanks to him and thomsen , whose performance is utterly flawless and equally emotionally complex .  everyone else is flawless as well - the actors never seem to be stepping into the shoes of their characters as much as they do walking comfortably in them .  the actors or writers have not made the mistake to judge these characters in the slightest : there are no whites or blacks but instead all grays , exactly like life .  as such , " the celebration " may be the one truly bizarro film of the year : a work of art so eerily close to reality that it's utterly disturbing and utterly fascinating .  
pos	together writer-director danny verete's three tales comprise a powerful and reasonably fulfilling gestalt . 
neg	 . . . has its moments , but ultimately , its curmudgeon doesn't quite make the cut of being placed on any list of favorites . 
neg	pretension , in its own way , is a form of bravery . for this reason and this reason only -- the power of its own steadfast , hoity-toity convictions -- chelsea walls deserves a medal . 
pos	as gory as the scenes of torture and self-mutilation may be , they are pitted against shimmering cinematography that lends the setting the ethereal beauty of an asian landscape painting . 
pos	the weight of the piece , the unerring professionalism of the chilly production , and the fascination embedded in the lurid topic prove recommendation enough . 
pos	troubling and powerful . 
pos	with an obvious rapport with her actors and a striking style behind the camera , hélène angel is definitely a director to watch . 
neg	enough trivializes an important crisis , reduces it to an almost comic embarrassment . 
neg	a combination of standard , stiff tv-style animation and snazzy-looking digital effects that do little to disguise the fact that the characters barely move . 
pos	speaks eloquently about the symbiotic relationship between art and life . 
pos	broomfield is energized by volletta wallace's maternal fury , her fearlessness , and because of that , his film crackles . 
neg	not so much farcical as sour . 
neg	renee zellweger stars as sonia , a young jewish wife and mother frustrated by the constraints of her hasidic community in brooklyn .  her husband ( glenn fitzgerald ) is a religious scholar whose all-in-a-day's-work attitude on sex fails to tame the " fire " she feels within , as so she confesses to the rebbe ( after hearing her fiery confession , the rebbe suddenly gets frisky with his pleasantly surprised wife--and dies the next morning ) .  sensing her frustration , her husband's brother ( christopher eccleston ) gives her a job in his jewelry brokering business in exchange for raw , passionless sex that just fans sonia's still-burning flame .  on the job , sonia befriends ramon ( allen payne ) , a cool blast of hunky puerto rican water who does his own jewelry designs when not working as a grunt in an upscale jewelry store .  can fire-taming be far be that far behind for the ever-smoldering sonia ?  just about everything in writer-director boaz yakin's rings false , starting with the improbably cast zellweger , who does an adequate enough acting job but simply looks too waspy for the role .  a better fit would have been julianna margulies , who outshines zellweger as sonia's take-no-crap sister-in-law .  some of sonia's baby steps toward liberation , such as indulging in a non-kosher egg roll in chinatown , come off as silly .  yakin attempts to spice up the proceedings with a touch of magical realism--in the form of the recurring presence of sonia's long-dead brother's ghost--make the story feel even more trite than it already is .   " i didn't know what to expect .  it's like something you chase for so long , but then you don't know how to react when you get it .  i still don't know how to react . "  --michael jordan , on winning his first nba championship in 1991 . . . or ,  my thoughts after meeting him on november 21 , 1997  
neg	the film rehashes several old themes and is capped with pointless extremes -- it's insanely violent and very graphic . 
pos	thoroughly engrossing and ultimately tragic . 
pos	jacques tati's 1953 classic " les vacances de m . hulot " ( also known as " mr . hulot's vacation , " in english ) ought to be the textbook on how to do non ? dialogue comedy in film .  the characters hardly ever speak to each other directly , and the film operates on the paper ? thin premise that monsieur hulot , played by tati himself , is awkward and clumsy and generally manages to annoy the other guests at the beach resort hotel where he is taking a week's vacation .  yet the film had me beside myself laughing more consistently than any in recent memory .  part of the reason the film works so well is the clever setup for the various gags .  slapstick has often been regarded as an unsophisticated and even crude form of comedy , but i think part of the reason for this is that it often seems forced : you can only see movie characters start running after something and then crash face-first into a pole so many times before you start to wonder what all these poles are doing there in the first place or why these people don't watch where they're going .  in " les vacances de m . hulot , " the gags build upon each other and often start out relatively low-key .  in one sequence , for example , hulot is painting the side of his small row boat on the beach when , while his back is turned , the paint can gets caught up in the oncoming waves , washes away , then comes back up on the other side of the boat .  while crossing over to get the can , hulot steps in the boat and unknowingly cracks it .  when he actually takes the boat out into the water , it breaks in half , but the two halves flip up against each other , trapping him inside as the bystanders mistake it for a shark fin and panic on the beach ensues .  tati doesn't waste a single opportunity for humor ; scenes that might have yielded one joke in most comedies are good for at least four or five in this film .  it has been said that comedy relies on frustrating the audience's expectations , and " les vacances de m . hulot " succeeds brilliantly in that area as well .  tati accomplishes this largely through a sort of deadpan understatement .  when hulot goes into a separate room during dinner and starts playing a record at defeaningly loud volume , no fights or shouting matches ensue ; instead , the waiter calmly walks in and shuts off the power in the room , disconnecting the record player and leaving a puzzled hulot sitting in the dark .  tati also uses running gags to this effect , allowing them to keep running far longer than most comedy directors would ; more often than not , we can see them coming and think , " oh , he's not going to do that again , " but , lo and behold , he does .  for example , there is a recurring joke in which hulot's noisy , sputtering car engine wakes everyone in the middle of the night as an exterior shot reveals the hotel's lights coming on one by one .  then this image turns up again in the finale , which i will not give away other than to say that involves a lot more noise in the middle of the night than a car engine could ever produce .  the ending is one of two elements that really make this a four-star film as opposed to merely an above-average , clever comedy .  as much as i was laughing during this film , i was thinking to myself occasionally that tati had to top himself at the end to really make this work as a complete viewing experience ; suffice it to say that he did .  the other important aspect is that the film never seems disdainful of its characters .  it easily could have turned the tables on hulot and had the other guests exact some kind of revenge on him ; alternatively , it could have portrayed the others as humorless curmudgeons .  instead , tati seems to regard his characters with cheerful amusement more than anything else and invites the audience to like them , however strange or irritating they might seem .   " les vacances de m . hulot " is not subtitled , but the dialogue is sparse and for the most part not terribly essential to the flow of events .  anyone with a taste for this kind of absurd humor ought to make this film their next rental from the video store .  note : " les vacances de m . hulot " was not rated by the mpaa .  it would at most receive a pg rating .  
pos	the director explores all three sides of his story with a sensitivity and an inquisitiveness reminiscent of truffaut . 
neg	sweet gentle jesus , did the screenwriters just do a cut-and-paste of every bad action-movie line in history ? 
neg	i saw the 10 p.m. showing and i must say that this movie was nothing special . although i did not leave the theater wanting my time back ( as i do n't actually pay for movies anymore ) i did n't really find any redeeming qualities . there were a few lines and such that made me chuckle , but mostly the film seemed to consist of rampant fan service to the younger ( in mind more than age as this film is rated r ) male audience . the fan service seemed out of place and rather distracting as well . i know you all want to hear samuel l. say his infamous line , but let 's be honest , it 's a whole lot of hype for very little pay off . the only truly horrible part of the film was the cg , which looked very digitized and did not mesh well with the live action on the screen . now i am a reasonable man , i knew going into the theater that i was n't going to be seeing " casablanka , " and i am at least thankful that this film is an original ( albiet inane ) idea and not some re - make or franchise spin off . however to be honest , if you are not a part of the cult following you are probably better off spending your money elsewhere and seeing the film either in a second run theater in a few weeks or renting it in a few months .
pos	a chronicle not only of one man's quest to be president , but of how that man single-handedly turned a plane full of hard-bitten , cynical journalists into what was essentially , by campaign's end , an extended publicity department . 
pos	a behind the scenes look at the training and dedication that goes into becoming a world-class fencer and the champion that's made a difference to nyc inner-city youth . 
pos	the film's intimate camera work and searing performances pull us deep into the girls' confusion and pain as they struggle tragically to comprehend the chasm of knowledge that's opened between them . 
neg	automatically pegs itself for the straight-to-video sci-fi rental shelf . 
pos	a moving tale of love and destruction in unexpected places , unexamined lives . 
neg	the movie is undone by a filmmaking methodology that's just experimental enough to alienate the mainstream audience while ringing cliched to hardened indie-heads . 
pos	the performances are amiable and committed , and the comedy more often than not hits the bullseye . 
neg	as you should know , this summer has been less than memorable .  with a total of 4 decent films , it's not a surprise that these big budget failures keep appearing .  with that said , you can pretty much predict what my opinion on " the 13th warrior " will be .  the film is based on the michael crichton " eaters of the dead " , in which ahmed ibn fahdlan is banished from his country for looking at a wife of a king .  after tarveling for many months , he comes across a gang of norsemen , who are forced to pick 13 men to protect a town from mythical monsters who travel in the fog .  so , they start picking men , and are left without 1 , thus ahmed is choosen .  so far it sounds interesting right ?  not when all of this takes place in 15 minutes .  after that , they basically run around killing .  that alone shows how much a script is needed for a film , because once your story is introduced , you have the rest of the film to start developing it .  obviously that's not the case here .  even if you are going into the film expecting an action packed adventure , you will be disappointed .  since all the action takes place in fog , it is constantly hard to see a scene clearly due to those circumstances , and to poor camera work .  can't the camera men sit still ?  i'd like to actually watch a film in focus , but again , they failed to deliver that as well .  the film moves on and on until the point , where you can care less about anything but the popcorn you're eating .  with corny dialogue , that the characters laugh at for some odd reason , a script that goes nowhere , dull action sequences , a predictable ending , and worst of all weak characters , there's basically nothing to like here , except for maybe the set designs .  that's the only thing that honestly caught my interest .  when i heard that john mctiernan , the director , wanted his name kept out of the project , that made me wonder why ?  well now i know .  crichton's greed forced mctiernan to edit his finished product , which led to a big arguement .  what's there to argue about anyway ?  the film couldn't be saved , no matter how much they spent or casted .  seeing films like the haunting and big daddy making money , i wouldn't be surprised to see " the 13th warrior " become a hit .  please do me a favor and save your money at all costs , or else you will be lost in the fog , like the film itself .  
neg	a bold ( and lovely ) experiment that will almost certainly bore most audiences into their own brightly colored dreams . 
pos	me no lika da accents so good , but i thoroughly enjoyed the love story . scott baio is turning in some delightful work on indie projects . 
pos	art-house to the core , read my lips is a genre-curling crime story that revives the free-wheeling noir spirit of old french cinema . 
pos	it's an entertaining movie , and the effects , boosted to the size of a downtown hotel , will all but take you to outer space . 
neg	it's the kind of under-inspired , overblown enterprise that gives hollywood sequels a bad name . 
pos	life on the rez is no picnic : this picture shows you why . 
neg	an awkwardly contrived exercise in magic realism . 
pos	a real movie , about real people , that gives us a rare glimpse into a culture most of us don't know . 
neg	unfortunately , contrived plotting , stereotyped characters and woo's over-the-top instincts as a director undermine the moral dilemma at the movie's heart . 
neg	when [reno] lets her radical flag fly , taking angry potshots at george w . bush , henry kissinger , larry king , et al . , reno devolves into a laugh-free lecture . 
pos	it will break your heart many times over . 
neg	 " mission to mars " is one of those annoying movies where , in the middle of the movie , you get the sneaking suspicion that the reason the trailer looks so good is because they showcased all the best parts of the movie : all five minutes of it .   " mission " * does * give you payoff ; but when it does come , it's too little , too late .   " mission " has some good ideas , but they get lost in the unbearably boring delivery , dime-a-dozen dialogue , and spate of good actors wasted in cardboard-cutout roles .  i'm sure the director and writers were very proud of each hallmark moment they came up with , so they stretch each dramatic moment out like silly putty until it loses all its charm .  glances don't communicate any deeper emotions just because you draw them out for five hours on end .  the film spends an hour on this kind of stuff , building to its climax .  a lot of it is a cliched glorification of family relationships , marriage , friendship , unite we stand divided we fall kind of crap .  there are some spectacular special effects sequences in this film , and i give it points for trying to stay true to the science i know ( trying is the key word here ) .  the sequence with the martian demonstrating their history is oddly beautiful and touching , but as mentioned by then we're so sick of the goddamn thing we want the movie to be over .  great design , good intentions , but no cigar .  if you're not a die hard sci-fi , fx or jerry o'connell fan ( his character is the only one who has some semblance of character ) , don't waste your eight bucks on this .  and what the hell , tim robbins died halfway through the movie , in a stupid way too .  that's just unforgiveable .  
neg	hollywood's answer to an air ball . 
pos	no awards show can please all the people . clearly if your favorite movies did n't win , you will say the show was n't very good . that 's understandable . however , the 74th annual academy awards will be remembered for one magical moment of hollywood history : woody allen 's first appearance ever at the academy awards . allen has often shunned the awards as being self - aggrandizing and pointless , and has never attended -- even though he has won several of the coveted awards . when the 74th academy awards were held , the nation was still mourning the loss of life in the collapse of the world trade centers in new york . when it came time to pay tribute to the city of new york , they decided to show a video of the great movie moments form the city of cities . then the announcer simply said : " ladies and gentleman , oscar award winning director woody allen . " the place erupted in an extremely long standing ovation . the entertainment industry finally got to give their applause to the man from new york who usually avoids the hollywood scene . as the applause died down , woody applied some of his legendary wit to the situation . some highlights : " thank you very much - that makes up for the strip search . " " i thought they wanted their oscars back , " he joked . " i panicked because the pawn shop has been out of business for ages and i had no way of retrieving anything . " " but that was n't it . i could n't work it out because my movie was n't nominated for anything this year . then it hit me - maybe they were calling to apologise . " allen also disclosed why he had overlooked his lifelong oscar - aversion for this one special night . " for new york city , i 'd do anything . so i got my tux on and came down here , " said allen . " it 's a great , great movie town . it 's been a great , moving and exciting backdrop for movies and it remains a great , great city . "
pos	usually when a blockbuster comes out , it's loaded with effects , stars , bad scripts , and plenty of action .  mystery men may contain an all-star cast , and efects , but the clever script and characters are what really works , which is rare to see this year .  the film is based upon the comic book series " the flaming carrot " by bob burden , in which 3 wanna be super heroes try and fight crime , only to be out done by the real hero of champion city , captain amazing ( greg kinnear ) .  things go a little haywire , when the sinister casanova frankenstein ( geoffrey rush ) is released into the city , where he captures captain amazing , and plans to wreak havoc upon champion city .  well , the trio decide to take matters in their own hands , by saving the city , but first they need some assitance .  this is where the film takes a turn for the better .  in the beggining , there were only 3 wanna be heroes .   " blue raja ( hank azaria ) , " mr . furious ( ben stiller ) and " the shoveller ( william h . macy ) .  sure they were enterataining , but their acts grew old fast .  that is until they aquire " invisible boy " ( kel mitchell ) , and " the bowler " ( janeane garafalo ) and " mr . splein " ( paul reubens ) , 2 of which rescue the film from becoming a disastorous mess .  thankfully , the original 3 heroes become amusing , with some support of reuben and garfalo on screen .  the whole premise is rather ridiculous , but packs a few punches to keep interest .  for one , the film is considerably clever .  it literally pokes fun at super hero films , like batman and robin , superman etc . in fact , many scenes are similar to batman and robin , including the opening sequence , only altered in a humorous and superior way .  a part of the cleverness comes from the cast .  sometimes a film with such talent is overblown , but the acting is what keeps it alive here .  while azaria and macy were enteratining , 2 characters really stood out .  one was paul reuben .  no matter how disgusting or revolting " mr . splein " may be , you still can't help but laugh .  it' so incredibly moronic , it's just a riot watching reuben relieve himself of bodily functions .  janeane garafalo also was an interesting character .  she seemed to be the most outgoing and convincing character on screem , due to her enthusiasm , that kept the film flowing .  men is worth seeing alone , for those 2 troubled heroes .  on the downside , a few of the heroes and especially the villain never really lift off .  kel mitchell and geoffrey rush , were both utterly useless .  their parts were so limited , they'd be lucky at all to be on screen for more than 20 minutes .  ben stiller too was wasted , mostly because of his unlikeable power and dialogue .  none of these characters get a rise out of anybody , but happily they are lost in the charming flow of the film .  as far as the budget goes , it was wisely spent on the cast , not the effects .  while the set designs and action all look nice , i'm glad there was a seperate aspect , that the film focused on , and for that i applaud .  slow at times , and rather pointless , mystery men still delivers .  it forgets about money making , because it's not likely to make a bundle like it's proceeders , and that's what works .  stupid ?  maybe , but for once i'm not disappointed .  no one expected an intelligent film , but you get a film thats wit captures your attention and makes you forget this miserable year .  
neg	in this film , aussie david caesar channels the not-quite-dead career of guy ritchie . 
pos	woo's fights have a distinct flair . his warriors collide in balletic explosion that implies an underlying order throughout the chaos . 
pos	the story and structure are well-honed . fresnadillo's dark and jolting images have a way of plying into your subconscious like the nightmare you had a week ago that won't go away . 
pos	macdowell . . . gives give a solid , anguished performance that eclipses nearly everything else she's ever done . 
neg	both the crime story and the love story are unusual . but they don't fit well together and neither is well told . 
neg	the superior plotline isn't quite enough to drag along the dead ( water ) weight of the other . 
neg	the tone shifts abruptly from tense to celebratory to soppy . 
neg	the best thing -- in fact , the only good thing -- i can say about dark city is that it made me want to go see l . a . confidential again .  or go rent body heat , to see william hurt do some real noir .  or even -- god help me -- palmetto .  alex proyas's new movie screams atmosphere .  i screamed , too , " get me out of this theater ! "  new line cinema spent millions of dollars creating the expressionistic film noir visuals and paying the actors , and doesn't have any way to get it back .  i paid $4 . 25 for a matinee screening and don't have any way to get my money back , either .  you'll hear a lot from other critics about the look and feel of this movie .  i will admit that the cinematographers and costume designers and set artists and cgi graphics geeks all worked hard to create a stunning , nightmarish future world where it's always a late night in 1948 , complete with rotary phones and automats and fedoras .  i've got news for you fellows -- i don't care how hard you worked , or how visually stunning this movie looks -- you wasted your time and mine , working on a movie without a plot , without a clear sense of direction of where it wanted to go , without a soul or a reason to care .  the movie starts out oh-so-promising .  john murdoch ( rufus sewell ) is lying in a bathtub in the sort of seedy hotel that in real life , would have been boarded up long ago .  there is a dead , mutilated prostitute in the other room -- a surprise , as he has lost his memory .  the phone rings : it's a sinister-sounding man , claiming to be his doctor , telling him to flee for his life .  all well and good , right ?  wrong .  apparently , someone decided that the audience was just a bit too dim to figure out the intricacies of the plot .   ( this is getting to be a popular assumption in hollywood . )  so , the actual beginning of the movie is not sewell running for his life , rather , it's a voice-over narration by the aforementioned doctor ( keifer sutherland ) explaining exactly what is going on and who is responsible .  it's as though sam the piano player had told us that rick and ilsa had been getting it on in paris in the first three minutes of casablanca .  no , wait , that's not fair to casablanca .  it's more like watching a new plotline at the first of the show -- or if you want to know how i really feel , having an off-screen narrator explain that gilligan won't be getting off the island in this episode .  >from here , the coherence of the plot goes down faster than ( insert monica lewinsky joke here ) .  the characters just wander around the city aimlessly and bump into each other for no apparent reason , and that's what moves the plot .  what we're left with is a string of unanswered questions that don't make any sense .  we're given aliens with unlimited omnipotent powers , yet they forget to use them at critical moments and get themselves killed .  we're given a hero who can " tune " into these same powers , yet he only uses them when it's convenient to the plot .  we're given a whole long list of loose ends that go nowhere  usually , critics will say that an actor playing an underwritten part " isn't given much to do . "  in this movie , no one is given anything to do .  sewell is given the impossible role of a man who doesn't remember anything , and plays it like . . .  um . . .  a man who doesn't remember anything .  the aliens are tall , pasty-faced , and bald , and wear long black cloaks and fedoras to remind us that they're evil -- and there's a child alien as well , straight out of an anne rice novel .  sutherland is saddled with a limp , a twitchy eye , and a breathy accent to remind us that he's in league with the aliens .  to its credit , dark city boasts two impressive bits of casting .  william hurt is perfectly cast as the world-weary inspector charged with catching the man who is murdering prostitutes all over the city .  jennifer connelly , playing sewell's love interest , is given two all-too-brief moments on screen as a lounge singer -- and turns in the sexiest performace this side of jessica rabbit .  but instead of the dogged policeman and the femme fatale given central treatment in the script ( the way they would be in any self-respecting noir movie ) they're almost tangiential to the plot , such as it is .  the problem with dark city is this : it's a bad science fiction movie pretending to be film noir .  the essence of film noir isn't , as proyas seems to beleive , breathy dialogue or snap-brim fedoras or tall , bald evil villains who would make peter lorre curl up in a corner .  dark city has not one bit of intrigue , moral ambiguity , suspense , or anything else that keeps us coming back to the noir classics .  dark city is like the intricately carved door that kate winslet floats on in titanic .  it's an exceptionlly well-made and intricately designed piece of flotsam , sailing around and around the middle of the ocean , going nowhere .  
neg	i wish more films would take on issues of faith and morality in the modern world .  and i wish that film-makers would use commandments as a blueprint on how _not_ to do it .  writer/director daniel taplitz has created a bizarre conglomeration of satire and soul-searching in this tale of seth warner ( aidan quinn ) , a man of faith who runs into a streak of bad luck which usually inspires country-western lyrics : his pregnant wife drowns , his home is destroyed by a tornado , he loses his job and his dog is crippled by a bolt of lightning .  convinced that god has broken his half of the covenant , seth decides to break his , and sets out to turn every " thou shalt not " of the ten commandments into a " thou shalt " ( and vice versa ) .  his wife's sister rachel ( " friends " ' courteney cox ) wants to help seth ; rachel's selfish husband harry ( anthony lapaglia ) , who tends to break a few commandments of his own , thinks seth is a lunatic .  thus begins a film which picks the wrong tone for every occasion .  taplitz isn't interested in treating seth's tragedies as genuinely tragic , making it impossible to sympathize with him .  composer joseph vitarelli provides a score full of whimsical woodwinds , turning seth's sacrilegious mission into an amusing lark ; quinn's performance as seth is all wild-eyed fervor without any genuine pain .  the actual breaking of the commandments is almost treated as an afterthought , with one through five dispatched in a five-minute montage .  the result is a character whose actions feel less like the authentic responses of an anguished man than the machinations of a high-concept movie plot .  it's not even entirely clear that commandments is about seth .  corporate attorney rachel is given a case which is supposed to soften a hard heart we see no indication she has , while harry gets his comeuppance as part of seth's " false witness . "  only courteney cox strikes a note of reality in a solid performance ; she is sane center around which too equally troubled men revolve .  even she can't force taplitz to decide whose story this is , or what we should have learned about dealing with the struggles in our lives and our relationship with the infinite .  by the time seth makes a singularly biblical reappearance late in the film , it has become clear that taplitz is aiming for a fantastical fable which makes no connection with real human experience .  commandments is a bad comedy which could have been a decent drama if daniel taplitz had had the guts to take faith -- and the loss thereof -- at all seriously .  
pos	shyamalan takes a potentially trite and overused concept ( aliens come to earth ) and infuses it into a rustic , realistic , and altogether creepy tale of hidden invasion . 
neg	i admit it .  i thought arnold schwarzenegger had a knack for comedy when he made twins and true lies .  watching him in jingle all the way , i wondered why anyone ever thought he could carry such a lame movie targeted at susceptible kids .  it was one thing to scare the crap out of kids with the pg-13 kindergarten cop , but parents who let small children see this movie will have to explain themes of violence , alcohol consumption , burglary , racism and child molestation .  and you know they'll burst out in tears when arnold punches one of santa's elves .  he later decks a reindeer .  hey , man , why don't you just kick the easter bunny in the nuts while you're at it ?  jingle all the way is formula crap that follows the if someone falls on his ass , it must be funny school of thought .  arnold , sinbad and phil hartman crash to the ground more times in this movie than a special olympics hockey team , and the movie dredges up more cliche and less believability with each successive scene .  what can you expect from a movie whose entire premise is that two parents can't find a rare toy on christmas eve , and will do anything to get one ?  arnold is , of course , one of the parents , a crack salesman who is never there for his son .  he races from the office to his son's karate game , only to find out he missed it .  and his kid distrusts him because he's never around .   ( gee , we haven't seen that in a movie before . )  arnold the absentee father becomes convinced that the only way to buy back his son's affection is to get him a turboman doll , which his wife ( rita wilson , who will never be the breadwinner of the hanks household choosing roles like this ) told him to get weeks ago .  so arnold sets out to find a turboman , which turns out to be more rare than the tickle me elmo was when jingle all the way came out .  let me back up for a minute here -- arnold's kid is totally obsessed with this turboman character , which is unhealthy beyond belief .  watches the show , eats the cereal , sleeps on the freakin' turboman sheets .  i'd try to discourage any further obsession myself , lest any kid seeing this movie think it's a wonderful thing to con your dad into racing out to buy you any toy you want .  but nooooo , the climax of jingle all the way has arnold dressed up as turboman in a parade , exonerating himself of all wrongdoing in the eyes of wife and son , who don't recognize him until the last minute .  this is a sad movie all the way through , but it only gets worse after the opening scenes of arnold and mailman sinbad stampeding through a store , racing off to the mall and hooking up with a santa ( jim belushi ) who runs a bootleg toy factory .  most painful to watch is a scene at a radio station , where sinbad holds off the cops with a letter bomb after beating up the deejay ( an embarrassed martin mull ) who said he was giving away a turboman doll .  capitalism has produced some pretty evil things ( chia pets ) , but this ode to excess and violent consumerism is one of the most shameful .  never mind the subplot with perfect neighbor phil hartman trying to seduce wilson while arnold is off shopping ( " your cookies are incredible " ) , it's the main plot of the movie that sends the message that it's okay to do whatever it takes to get your hands on what you want .  maybe that's what christmas is like at the schwarzenegger house , but not at mine .  
neg	this is a monumental achievement in practically every facet of inept filmmaking : joyless , idiotic , annoying , heavy-handed , visually atrocious , and often downright creepy . 
neg	it is most of the things costner movies are known for ; it's sanctimonious , self-righteous and so eager to earn our love that you want to slap it . 
neg	the title is taken from the writings of ralph waldo emerson describing the life of a traveler as 'anywhere but here . '  there isn't one thing about this mother-daughter relationship melodrama that felt honest .  it relies on a contrived minor character to tell both mother and daughter what was obvious to do in order to straighten out their dysfunctional lives , as for some reason they couldn't figure it out for themselves .  if the film looks familiar , that is because " the slums of beverly hills ( 98 ) " went over the same ground but was fortunate to be more comical and perceptive due to alan arkin and natasha lyonne performances , in which they were fortunate to have a much sharper script to work with .  alvin sargent's script was weak and annoyingly claustral .  wayne wang's ( " the joy luck club " ) inept direction made a weak script even weaker by his inability to tell the story unfolding without the voiceover relating what the action couldn't convey .  pushy mother adele august ( susan sarandon ) forces her 14-year-old daughter ann ( natalie portman ) to leave a small midwestern burg to go cross-country with her to beverly hills .  the daughter resents her twice divorced , unstable but exotic , schoolteacher mother , bullying her to be an actress as a means of escaping a humdrum life .  the daqughter doesn't even like the used gold mercedes mother buys to drive to lala land in and can't stand the beach boys records mom enjoys hearing on the car radio .  so it becomes a question of who knows best , as the ladies fight it out between them , until the predictable sweet ending comes in this yawner .  adele's dream of greener pastures in beverly hills soon doesn't look that good , as she lands a job in a slum school , has her precious car scratched by the unruly kids , and settles into a job she hates in order to financially survive .  daughter pines for small town wisconsin and her friends there .  during one of many arguments with her free-spirited mom , they go for ice cream and while mother is being ticketed , she runs away , only to be chased down by friendly traffic cop ( michael milhoan ) , who offers her wise counsel .  with the cop's zen wisdom passed onto the daughter , she will survive living in many different addresses in beverly hills until she reaches 17 and then she plans to get way from mom by using her good grades to go to brown university instead of ucla .  during their stay in beverly hills , she grows from feeling awkward in beverly hills high to immediately having many high school girlfriends and even a high school rich boy admirer-- a t . s .  eliot ( corbin allred ) reader .  but the transition of her life into beverly hills had no feel of reality , as everything seemed staged and unemotional .  when she learns her cousin benny ( shawn hatosy ) , who happens to be her best friend dies in a traffic accident back in wisconsin , she returns for the funeral and in those reunion scenes it wasn't clearly shown why she wants to stay there , and for that matter , it was never made clear why the mother wants to leave so badly .  the film is one big battle of wills between mother and daughter over their dreams .  i guess what the filmmaker is trying to say , is that mom is a bad dreamer and the daughter is the observant one , able to recognize mother's faults when not in growing pains and in need of parenting herself .  mother has a series of setbacks , like being dumped by her dream-boat dentist ( bochner ) she met on the beach , and witnessing her daughter mimic her whiny optimistic sayings when trying out for an acting part .  but mother learns that her daughter has grown-up and is independent and that she has to stop living her life through her .  she learns this when the same wise cop who told ann what to do , is about to ticket her and this time will remind the mother of the right thing to do .  this of course results in the corny ending , showing that mom's heart was always in the right place , only she went about it in the wrong way .  this was just one of those films where you want to be anywhere but in the theater where this film is showing .  
pos	the aaa of action , xxx is a blast of adrenalin , rated eee for excitement . and vin diesel is the man . 
pos	this is my first cg animated film that i 've ever seen . usually , the look of other animated films made me reticent to see them . not ice age . i wanted to see it the moment i saw the trailer with scrat , the hilarious sabertooth squirrel . ice age was sporadically funny and overall fun film to watch . the story is basically an animated version of three men and a baby , set 20,000 years in the past . the visuals were great . simply beautiful . it 's one thing to create convincing aninmation , it 's another thing altogether to create visually arresting stuff and ice age is great to look at with its stylized visuals . blue sky studios is a company to look out for in the future .
pos	the hours makes you examine your own life in much the same way its characters do , and the experience is profound . the hours is what movies are supposed to be . . . 
pos	it is a kickass , dense sci-fi action thriller hybrid that delivers and then some . i haven't seen one in so long , no wonder i didn't recognize it at first . 
pos	both heartbreaking and heartwarming . . . just a simple fable done in an artless sytle , but it's tremendously moving . 
pos	impresses you with its open-endedness and surprises . 
pos	two weeks notice has appeal beyond being a sandra bullock vehicle or a standard romantic comedy . 
pos	a rock-solid gangster movie with a fair amount of suspense , intriguing characters and bizarre bank robberies , plus a heavy dose of father-and-son dynamics . 
neg	an average b-movie with no aspirations to be anything more . 
neg	the whole film has this sneaky feel to it  as if the director is trying to dupe the viewer into taking it all as very important simply because the movie is ugly to look at and not a hollywood product . 
neg	originality is sorely lacking . 
pos	mr . caine and mr . fraser are the whole show here , with their memorable and resourceful performances . 
pos	 . . . a somber film , almost completely unrelieved by any comedy beyond the wistful everyday ironies of the working poor . 
pos	dogtown and z-boys more than exposes the roots of the skateboarding boom that would become " the punk kids' revolution . " 
neg	when i first saw the preview for cruel intentions , i turned to my friend and said , " dangerous liaisons for kids ! "  it was clear to me that the film would be an obvious chunk of plagiarized nonsense , owing everything it is to stephen frears' 1988 masterpiece .  imagine my surprise to see that writer/director roger kumble has given credit to his source material : choderlos de laclos is recognized for his novel les liaisons dangereuses in the opening credits .  and i was impressed .  in fact , i was much more impressed with this recognition than with the actual film , which is an appalling excuse for a movie .  it's kiddie-porn hackwork , complete with earthy sex-talk and fully-clothed hand-jobs .  i suppose this kind of movie was inevitable ; with all the teen high-school angst movies coming out , there was certainly room for a pretentious and laughable movie about a bunch of teenagers who think they're smarter and more beautiful than all the other people on earth combined .  cruel intentions is a mess in every possible way , and it fails primarily in the way i expected it to : i hated all the characters , and i hate everything they do .  i also hate ryan phillippe , so perhaps my opinion is not as objective as it could be .  phillippe plays ( check out this name ) sebastian valmont .  wow .  isn't that a memorable name ?  i could just say it over and over again .  sebastian valmont .  it kind of rolls off the tongue , in the spirit of phrases like sanguine vapors and velvet sandwich .  sebastian valmont is the coolest guy who ever walked the earth ; there is no woman he can't have , no material object out of his reach .  he has all the money , all the sex -- all at his fingertips .  and , luckily , his parents never enter into his life -- no , in the world of cruel intentions , adults don't really exist .  the ones who do are irritating .  sebastian valmont lives with his stepsister , kathryn merteuil ( sarah michelle gellar ) , the bitch-queen of the universe , and also the woman every man wants .  since these two rich kids are so bored , they only thing they can do is challenge each other with meaningless sexual liaisons .  kathryn wants sebastian valmont to de-virginize cecile caldwell ( selma blair ) , a naive dork-chick who has somehow wronged kathryn .  but it's too easy for sebastian valmont -- he wants to nail annette hargrove ( reese witherspoon ) , the " paradigm of chastity and beauty . "  so , sebastian valmont and kathryn make a deal ( which is too explicit to state here ) .  but -- dear god !  -- sebastian valmont actually begins to fall for poor annette hargrove .  dangerous liaisons is a great movie because the characters are all believable , and because of its masterful acting .  cruel intentions is bad for many reasons , but it lacks both believable characters and masterful acting .  kathryn merteuil is simply a hateful witch , a girl so loathsome that i would probably enjoy pouring hot lead on her .  she is supposed to be mean , but glenn close gave the character some depth in dangerous liaisons .  gellar , while aesthetically pleasing , is one-dimensional and utterly repulsive .  witherspoon has a truly beautiful face , but her character isn't the moral staple she's supposed to be : sure , she won't have sex until she's in love ( is this really a * moral * issue ? ) , but she does some things in the last few scenes that are more than a little reprehensible .  but i can't forget mr . phillippe , who continues to exceed my expectations with his impenetrable , invulnerable blandness .  i have to give him credit and say that he did , in fact , manage to change his facial expression about three times during the course of cruel intentions .  and there's one point in the film in which he shouts , thereby defeating my hypothesis that he is vocally monotone .  true , he is bad , but it doesn't help that he has no character to work with .  kumble has drained all the interesting aspects from this character , leaving us with a sex-crazed lunatic who is supposed to be sympathetic because he falls in love with a moral flower and shuns the wicked bitch .  the film fails in every other way , too .  first of all , nobody talks like this .  even the " intellectuals " i know don't bother with this kind of pointless and pretentious yammering .  for a while , the movie looks like it might play itself for laughs , but it ends up taking itself so seriously that there's no way we can join it .  cruel intentions also manages to come off as soft-porn in more than one scene .  earlier i mentioned a fully-clothed hand-job ; this occurs between kathryn and sebastian valmont , both of whom are intended to be hateful at this point in the movie .  so , if we hate them , then what's the point of an extended sex scene ?  titillation , of course .  it can't even work under the pretense of " meaningful love scene , " because we hate the characters .  it's interesting to note some of the parallels between cruel intentions and dangerous liaisons .  kumble is clearly familiar with the earlier film ; many of the scenes have a similar tone , and there are moments in frears' film that kumble imitates almost completely ( such as the last scene , in which [spoiler warning ! ] the antagonist is humiliated in front of her peers ) .  but kids don't act like this .  nobody acts like this .  in his translation , roger kumble forgot character development and sympathy -- some pretty crucial elements .  the result is a picture of confounding badness , a kiddie-porn mess that thinks it's really deep and profound .  i'll give cruel intentions credit for realizing its influences , but that doesn't change the fact that it's awful .  
pos	more vaudeville show than well-constructed narrative , but on those terms it's inoffensive and actually rather sweet . 
pos	beautifully shot against the frozen winter landscapes of grenoble and geneva , the film unfolds with all the mounting tension of an expert thriller , until the tragedy beneath it all gradually reveals itself . 
pos	divine secrets of the ya-ya sisterhood may not be exactly divine , but it's definitely -- defiantly -- ya ya , what with all of those terrific songs and spirited performances . 
pos	what a great way to spend 4 units of your day . 
pos	a complex psychological drama about a father who returns to his son's home after decades away . 
neg	the happy bastard's quick movie review  holy man  more like holy crap .  the film stars eddie murphy as a mystical-ish figure named g on a strange journey of some sort when he comes across two network execs ( jeff goldblum and kelly preston ) with a flat tire on their hands .  somehow he ends up in their car and on their channel , a line-up of infomercial programs featuring the likes of betty white , morgan fairchild , and a slew of other celebrities and nameless figures .  it's here that he seems to hit his stride , speaking of life instead and somehow boosting sales .  at this point in the movie , of course , morality comes into play , particularly on goldblum , who suddenly feels he can market the magical g into megabucks to get in good with his boss ( robert loggia ) .  it doesn't take long for the movie to unfold into sappy mush , with realizations taking place left and right and poor plot points .  only a real zippy sequence involving frying morgan fairchild's face seems to have any interest in the movie .  murphy lends nothing to his character and poor goldblum looks as if he'd rather be someplace else .  some may argue that the movie has a message , but all that came across to me is that i could probably get more entertainment watching that informercial with the guy in the question mark coat .  at least he has something for us to laught at . . .  
neg	cox is far more concerned with aggrandizing madness , not the man , and the results might drive you crazy . 
pos	jacquot has filmed the opera exactly as the libretto directs , ideally capturing the opera's drama and lyricism . 
pos	i 've seen this movie about 6 times now . and each time i view it , i 'm more impressed by the story and the acting . its like watching a train wreck being set in motion . its subtle in its approach , but very effective in reaching its goal .   spoilers- > at the center of the story is a very nice dichotomy . on the one hand we have deputy major , eddy calhoun ( cusack ) unknowingly tearing at the old boys network that forms the hart of major of new york 's administration and on the other hand we have the mob boss zappati who 's deliberately trying to maintain the status quo through all means necessary . this situation nicely culminates in the end when zappati orders alselmo to make it easy on himself by killing himself and calhoun ordering pappas to do the same , politically speaking . the movie also contains some really great one - liners such as ( a personal weakness of mine ) : - you do n't sum up a man 's life in one moment - the only thing new in this world is the history you do n't know all in all , a great movie that deserves a much higher rating .
neg	 . . . think of it as american pie on valium . 
neg	plot : a separated , glamorous , hollywood couple must pretend to reunite for a press junket of the last movie that they ever shot together .  kewl . . . now  i only wish that i could pretend never to have seen this movie . . .  critique : trite , unfunny , boring and a waste of everyone's talent .  how a premise with such zest and bite can turn into a movie that doesn't feature any chemistry , any real laughs , any surprises or any spice is beyond me .  how julia roberts is used solely as a " puppy dog " character , puttering around in the background while we endure the complete bitchiness of zeta-jones' character , who is not one bit funny or romantic ( two ideal ingredients in a " romantic comedy " ) , is also beyond me .  and why they chose john cusack , a great , quirky actor in his own right , to play the most bland , uninteresting and unfetching character ( with zero chemistry with either of his leads ) is further more , beyond me .  and to anybody who decided that this project was " funny " enough to greenlight featuring the talents mentioned above , along with billy crystal , christopher walker , seth green and stanley tucci . . . well ,  what can i say . . . i  just don't have the words .  so is this the worst movie that i've seen all year ?  no . but it definitely sucks and it's basically because . . . well ,  it's just not funny .  and for the record , allow me to state a few more problems with it .  it starts off slow , it's got no energy , it doesn't engage you with any of its characters ( julia barely gets somewhat interesting in the film , everyone else . . . lame ! ) , it utilizes way too many flashbacks to move the story forward , it's utterly predictable , standard , routine , see-through and uninteresting as a plot and it just sits there on the screen , big and ugly , waiting . . . waiting for you to laugh or find something in it that is amusing .  and then hank azaria shows up . . . aaaaaah , the film's savior ( mind you , some might be offended by his exaggeration of a stereotype , but that's another story altogether ) .  but when an experienced " voice " actor upstages all of the main stars in a summer " blockbuster " romantic comedy with an over-the-top antonio banderas accent , damn dude . . . your  film's in trouble ! !  rent this movie on video just to see what went wrong yourself .  the references to ricky ricardo and senor wences ( huh ! ? ) , the idio-plot points like when one of the characters goes on the roof to stretch his arms out and relax , but everyone believes that he's going to kill himself ( hardy-har-har ) and the cheap way of getting the audience to leave the theater laughing by bringing back a ball-sniffing dog that has no place being in the location at the end of the movie , well . . . i  could go on .  but i won't because i do still respect all of the actors in this film and actually did laugh at azaria , green and tucci's antics from time to time ( ironic , eh . . . what  about the leads , dammit ! ) and liked the premise behind the film ( before i saw the finished product , of course ) .  a dud all the way around .  btw , all the talk about this film was that julia roberts was to be in a fat suit for one scene ( her character is supposed to have lost 60 pounds ) , so when the scene finally came , i did get a little excited about what it might look like and then . . . well ,  it basically just looked like julia roberts in a fat suit !  ugh .  i think i'm gonna start drinking again after this lame-ass movie .  c'mon hollywood , enough with the crud !  where's joblo coming from ?  beautiful ( 1/10 ) - my best friend's wedding ( 7/10 ) - notting hill ( 5/10 ) - pretty woman ( 7/10 ) -runaway bride ( 5/10 ) - someone like you ( 4/10 ) - wedding planner ( 3/10 ) - when harry met sally ( 10/10 ) - you've got mail ( 4/10 )  
neg	a great idea becomes a not-great movie . 
neg	walsh can't quite negotiate the many inconsistencies in janice's behavior or compensate for them by sheer force of charm . 
neg	the filmmakers know how to please the eye , but it is not always the prettiest pictures that tell the best story . 
pos	spare yet audacious . . . 
pos	go see it and enjoy . 
neg	too often , the viewer isn't reacting to humor so much as they are wincing back in repugnance . 
neg	 " virus " is the type of cliched , vacuous film that has been recylcled so many times before that you wonder why anyone would even bother putting work into making it .  strangely enough , on the same mid-january weekend last year , another film was released like this , " deep rising , " about an ugly monster on a cruise liner .  prior movies with the almost exact same storyline include 1989's " leviathan , " 1989's " deep star six , " and all four " alien " pictures .   " virus , " in comparison , is a servicable thriller , well-made and produced , but since it doesn't include one moment of even remote originality or intelligence , it sinks under the weight of the water that the film was shot on .  based on a series of comic books , " virus " concerns the crew of an ocean salvage tugboat , which becomes extremely damaged during a violent typhoon .  after discovering that the boat is slowly sinking , ( un ) lucky for them , a huge ocean vessel that appears to be dead in the water turns up within the confines of their radar screen .  once the team reaches the russian ship , they go on board to find that the place is seemingly deserted .  after turning the power back on , however , there gradually are signs that something else is on the ship , and the electrical equipment is oddly working by itself .  one survivor finally does turn up , nadia ( joanna pacula ) , who informs the suicidal and stern captain ( donald sutherland ) and one of the crew , kit foster ( jamie lee curtis ) , that a mysterious alien life form hit the santi mir space station which then was transported down to the ship , taking over the minds of all of the electrical machines and thinking that humans are viruses that should be completely wiped out .  if " virus " sounds like all of the previously mentioned movies , you're correct .  although the technical artistry is fairly impressive to bring the mechanical creature to life , the film itself doesn't appear to have a brain in its head .  the film sticks so close to the worn-out conventions of the " creature " genre that it is amazing anyone would spend the money and time filming it when they could be making an original film .  the actors are all very good and have all proven their acting abilities in the past , but they are sorely wasted here and do not really even have characters to play .  in her second return to horror in the last year , jamie lee curtis once again proves to be a strong and resourceful heroine , but that is about it .  although 1998's " halloween : h20 " was also a disappointment , at least she was given a few scenes to develop a character , unlike here .  donald sutherland has fallen on hard times recently by starring in thoroughly disposable films , such as 1994's " the puppet masters , " although i just watched him in the superb 1978 sci-fi classic " invasion of the body snatchers , " where he was fabulous .  the last of the three top-billers is william baldwin , but it is fairly hard to say if he is good or not in the picture , since he has nothing to do .  basically , " virus " is another one of those films where a group of people walk around and investigate a space ship/ocean liner/haunted house until the deadly and equally grotesque and slimy creature pops up and kills them one-by-one .  it is not the worst of its type , but it is far from one of the best , and when exactly are studios going to give up recycling such shameless and overdone plot gimmicks such as this ?  as long as some of them keep making money , i suspect the answer is never .  
pos	in the old commercial for blank audio cassettes , the tag line was " is it real or is it memorex ? " the same might be said for the events in this episode - a compilation and remix of " the cage , " the first pilot of star trek . mr. spock has cleverly commandeered the ship to take it to the forbidden planet talos iv in order to allow capt . christopher pike , his first captain who has been burned and paralyzed , to return there . why the finagling ? because to have any contact at all with talos iv invites a death sentence . why this is so is never explained - that bothered me tremendously - but , if nothing else , it adds to the story . after he has gotten the ship to travel to talos iv , mr. spock turns himself in to dr. mccoy ( the senior - most officer present ; capt . kirk was off the ship ) for arrest and says , " the charge is mutiny , dr. ; i never received orders to take over the ship . " what follows is a court martial in which - thanks to the talosians - we learn why it was so important ( besides the obvious paralysis ) for capt . pike to get to talos iv even at risk of mr. spock 's death . the illusions the talosians create , the background music and the entire storyline are fantastic . and meg wyllie as the keeper ( the head talosian ) is wonderful . call me sexist but it never occurred to me to have a woman in that role but she was perfect ! the talosians , having given up almost all physical activity and becoming almost completely reliant upon the power of illusion , are also unisex ; you ca n't really tell if they 're male or female and it really does n't matter . this episode , more than almost any other in the series , makes me hope and pray there are other worlds out there and that there are civilizations that are so far advanced ! what a neat thing if this were so ! this is one of my favorite episodes and , no matter how many times i 've seen it ( i even have it on video ) , it never fails to fascinate me . meg wyllie looks like an alien and i do not mean that unkindly .
pos	vannesa kensington : `austin , do you smoke after sex ? ' austin powers : `i don't know baby , i've never looked ! '  and so begins our journey into the most anticipated sequel of the summer season .  austin powers 2 , the sequel to the sleeper hit of 1997 , is filled to the brim with uproarious sight gags and lurid toilet jokes that will make you keel over with hilarity .  the mind of mike myers is obviously a very bizarre place .  myers returns as the swinging 60's spy and his arch-nemesis , the bald headed dr . evil , who is given much of the spotlight here .  there's an early scene in which dr . evil and his son scott ( seth green ) appear on a jerry springer segment entitled `my dad is evil and wants to take over the world' , hosted by springer himself .  most of these talk-show gags , spoofing everything from oprah to regis and kathie lee , are no longer as funny as they once were .  happily , this is an exception , especially when a fight breaks out between dr . evil and the other guests .   ( sample dialogue- `come back here you mother #@%$^ ! !  you want a piece of me ? ' )  the audience was in stitches .  there are many good things about this sequel .  dr . evil is now assisted by mini-me ( verne troyer ) , a pint-sized clone who is the result of an experiment gone awry .  mini-me is the most perfect new character that any fan could ask for , and troyer does a terrific job of mimicking everything that his big brother does , pinkie and all .  mindy sterling returns as frau farbissina , evil's loud-mouth assassin sidekick , and here we are treated to a brief romantic liaison between the two in an underground bedroom chamber .  this works surprisingly well .  afterward , there's even a meeting at the coffee machine , where their awkwardness is expressed in a scene you would expect in any normal office environment .  oh , yes . . .  the plot .  after a short honeymoon with vanessa kensington ( elizabeth hurley ) that goes disastrously wrong , powers is back on the case to thwart the diabolical plans of dr . evil .  in the original , the subject of the day was cryogenic freezing that enabled the characters to hop between two time periods .  here , it's time travel .  dr . evil has this crazy plan to steal austin's mojo ( the source of his sexual powers ) , so he jumps through a time portal back into 1969 when powers is still is his freezing chamber .  there , he employs a grotesque 600-pound scottish assassin named fat bastard ( also myers ) to commandeer the mojo , so that our future hero is left completely shagless .  meanwhile , austin is informed of evil's wrong-doing by basil exposition ( michael york ) , and is supplied with his very own time-traveling device in the form of a volkswagen beetle .  once back in 1969 , powers meets a foxy cia operative named felicity shagwell ( heather graham ) , and learns of dr . evil's plans to destroy washington dc with a lazer on the moon .  in one of the many uproarious jabs at star wars , evil calls the moon base a `death star' .  if there ever was a movie that knew from the start it was a complete joke , it's austin powers : the spy who shagged me .  ap2 has many hilarious moments , much more so , than the original austin powers .  but what it doesn't have is the confident support system that the first boasted , and the jokes are now more scattershot and hit-and-miss .  while myers has a knack for delivering clever , inspired gags , he sometimes doesn't know when to call it quits .  the hilarious scene in the original involving mustafa ( will ferrell ) and his refusal to die is played out here in a disappointing and tired manner .  robert wagner , as dr . evil's #2 man , has only one scene early on in the film , where he lacks all the focus of the character .  one nice surprise is rob lowe , as the young #2 , who patterns wagner's voice and movements right down to a tee .  there are more recycled jokes from the predecessor , including kristen johnston as ivana humpalot ( an unfunny rendition of alotta fagina ) .  but myers has clearly put so much dedication into this project , and many bits are side-splittingly funny .  don't miss an extended visual gag in a tent , where the shadows leave much to the imagination . . . .  of the new characters , graham doesn't leave much of an impression .  her performance is merely okay , and she lacks the gung-ho enthusiasm that made elizabeth hurley so enjoyable before her .  and as for fat bastard . . .  well , he provides one or two hilarious moments , but all of the obesity jokes and bathroom talk go too far .  but my most severe complaint : mr . bigglesworth was only in one scene ! !  but , with gritted teeth , i managed to get over that .  this sequel will not leave fans disappointed ; it's more often than not a laugh riot .  and , i look optimistically to the future , where i foresee more installments to the austin powers collection .  if myers can up the quota of fresh ideas , we should be in store for much more .   ( c ) 1999 , jamey hughton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  jamey hughton ( 15 ) has written a weekly column in the starphoenix , saskatoon , sk since november , 1997 .  he was a 1999 writing finalist in the canadian ytv achievement awards .  
neg	 . . . a weak and ineffective ghost story without a conclusion or pay off . 
neg	there is a scene in patch adams in which patch is in the center of a courtroom , surrounded by people who are giving him a lively standing ovation because of his strong-worded attack on a group of stoic doctors .  when i noticed that the audience with whom i saw this film was reacting the same way , i realized that i was going to have a hard time finding someone who agrees with me about the quality of the picture .  you see , patch adams revolted me beyond all boundaries .  i hated this movie for every second that i sat watching it , and i actively hate it now , days later , with the simpering , superficial , nauseatingly sentimental images forever plaguing my memories .  i hate every element of the film , beginning with tom shadyac's shameless direction , and all the way up to the misguided and mishandled themes that the screenplay wants so desperately to convey .  the badness of patch adams is stupefying .  it's confounding .  i can't believe a film can be this bad .  and yet , it's based on a real man who probably has a good point to make .  in the film , patch is played by the undefeatable and indefatigable robin williams , in a performance of such insulting pathos and sledgehammer sympathy that i wonder now if he is even human .  in the beginning of the film , patch commits himself to a mental institution because he doesn't want to kill himself .  while there , he notices that the doctors don't care about the patients , and that the best way to get through to the patients is to treat them like human beings .  so , patch goes on a crusade to be a great doctor who actually talks to his patients .  he goes to medical school , where he meets truman ( daniel london ) and convinces him that it's good to help people .  he also meets carin fischer ( monica potters ) , the anti-male med student who just wants to go through the motions and be a successful doctor .  naturally , the dean of the medical school ( bob gunton ) hates patch , and wants to thwart his plans , even though patch gets the highest scores on all of his exams .  so patch decides that he's going to build a free clinic in the middle of nowhere to help people with any problem they may have .  and that , my friends , is the synopsis for what is easily the most abhorrent picture of 1998 .  on a superficial level , the film is not particularly bad : i wouldn't say the cinematography bothered me , and most of the performances seem to be exactly what shadyac was aiming for ( i actually liked potter's performance , even if she is wasted ) .  but the film fails fundamentally in execution .  every scene swells with grand , " emotional " music , played at maximum volume just to get us all to cry real hard .  take , for instance , the first scene , which shows patch sitting on a bus .  we don't know patch yet , but there's sad music , and it's supposed to make us really sad that he's sad .  later on , patch makes a lot of progress : he helps a dying patient ( peter coyote ) to enjoy the last days of his life , and the music as patch is pushing the patient recklessly through the halls of the hospital is very lively .  and when that patient finally dies ( spoiler alert ! ) , the music is very very sad .  but the problem with all of this is that the music should not be the center of the emotions .  real drama is character-based .  you grow to like someone , and then something bad happens , and you feel it .  we don't ever grow to know the dying patient ; he's simply a vehicle for patch's greatness .  real drama doesn't seem forced , or present just to make the audience cry .  that's why patch adams is not real drama .  it goes for every cheap tear imaginable , wringing tired and overbearing sentimentality out of every scene .  even scenes that have very little impact on the overall film are drowning in marc shaiman's sickening musical score .  sentimentality like this is indeed bad .  but it's not as bad as half-baked , simplistic themes .  you see , patch is a really great student .  he aces his tests without studying , and does it so effectively that people think he's cheating .  but patch doesn't think that memorizing facts is the way to become a good doctor .   " why don't we see patients until the third year ? " he bursts out every three seconds .  well , patch , that might have something to do with the fact that you need to learn something before you go treating patients .  not everyone has the capability of memorizing facts with no effort .  most of us have to study .  and a doctor who really wants to help , but doesn't know a toe from a finger , probably won't be too successful in preventing death .  oh wait , i almost forgot : the point of doctors is not just to " prevent death , " but to " improve the quality of life ! "  yes !  that is true !  and you can not do that without studying .  you can not do that without going to medical school .  what patch never seemed to understand was the possibility that maybe , just maybe , it is a good idea to study first and talk to patients later .  follow the rules ?  bah !  who needs the rules !  only uptight doctors follow the rules .  the real saviors are the ones running around the hospitals with big red spheres on their faces and sporting baggy yellow pants .  and then there's the free clinic issue , which i find shockingly , frighteningly idealistic .  a free clinic .  in the middle of the forest .  where patients can be taken to be helped .  for free .  how will patients be transported to the free clinic ?  will it have an emergency room ?  or is it just for mental patients ?  and who , may i ask , will pay for it ?  the film does give some token attempts to question patch's motives ( i think another character asks him how he's going to pay for it , in addition to a little bit of meaningless blather about hmos and medical insurance ) , but they certainly don't explore or challenge patch's ideas to any meaningful extent .  reader , please understand this : i am not making any kind of judgment on the real patch adams .  i know nothing about him .  if his beliefs mirror those of this film character , then i might like to have an intelligent discussion with him about them .  but regardless of what the real patch adams believes , the themes put forth in this film are simplistic and phony .  and in the last scene , the big , obligatory courtroom scene that forced my lunch halfway up my esophagus , patch does a lot of shouting .  actually , robin williams does a lot of shouting .  he shouts a lot about helping people , and a lot of people cry because they are moved by his words .  i won't tell you that you can't be moved by his words , because i , too , was moved by his words .  i was moved in such a profoundly negative way that i was reminded of how cheap and phony a cinematic experience can be .  patch adams is the cheapest of them all .  
neg	chill factor is a carbon copy of speed with one notable exception : instead of a speeding bus , we now have an ice cream truck .  the truck is driven by arlo ( cuba gooding jr . ) and mason ( skeet ulrich ) , who have been instructed by a dying scientist to transport a deadly chemical weapon to a military base by the name of fort mcgruder .  this particular weapon ( nicknamed `elvis' ) must be kept below a temperature of 50 degrees , or else the shockwave will goo-iffy everything in a mile radius .  that would be pretty nasty .  the power of elvis is revealed in the opening scene , as dr . richard long ( david paymer ) conducts a test on an isolated tropical island .  long accidentally melts 18 soldiers and defoliates virtually the entire island , due to an enormously miscalculated safety distance .  the commanding officer , general brynner ( peter firth ) , is sentenced to 10 years in prison for the murder of his troops .  upon his release , the general is intent on tracking the good doctor down , snatching elvis , and selling the weapon to the highest international bidder .  protecting the fate of the world is a drifting hamburger flipper ( ulrich ) and a feisty ice cream delivery man ( gooding jr . ) , who must elude brynner's men and get elvis to safety at fort mcgruder .  all the while , of course , they must keep the weapon below 50 degrees .  this proves to be tricky .  among the wild adventures arlo and mason partake in is a trip down a tree-covered mountainside in a boat , and a fist fight on top of a moving vehicle .  they also crack a few dozen witty retorts that we are supposed to find amusing .  to put it simply , i'll use a clever pun : chill factor should be put on ice .  director hugh johnson has mixed elements from speed , broken arrow and the lethal weapon series to create a lifelessly bland cocktail of a chase movie .  when there is some occasional action , the audience seems oddly detached from it .  perhaps that's because we've already waded through a pool of clich ? s and boring dialogue ; all material that's been used before , and with a lot more spice .  take the villains , for example .  they are typical stereotypes of every terrorist that has ever walked the silver screen .  they speak lines that have been recycled profusely from one movie to the next , divulge important plot details while holding their enemies at gunpoint , and act in very predictable ways .  the tag-team of gooding jr . and ulrich sounds much more exciting than it is .  frankly , i'm not sure i can accept cuba as an ice cream man .  i suppose it's better than him dressed like a giant hot dog , selling jumbo frankfurters on a street corner .  gooding displays one single emotion in this movie , which is frequently on display in lines like `i'm gonna get on yo ass like last year's underwear ! ' and the incessant sputtering of `oh , sh * t ! '  this is virtually the same character he played in jerry maguire and as good as it gets .  but where gooding was once an exciting actor , he now seems dull and endlessly monotonous .  at least he's a bit more captivating than ulrich , who has all the film's worst dialogue , but does nothing noticeable to enliven his character .  the supporting cast , which includes every personality you expect to pop up , is also wasted .  to be fair , there are a few brief moments of serviceable action .  and i did chuckle a few times .  one example is when ulrich ( an employee at `darlene's diner' ) is at the counter when brynner walks through the door .  `you own this place ? '  the general asks .  `yeah , ' ulrich says .  `they call me darlene . '  these little tidbits of humor are ( mainly ) welcome in this weak , disappointing wreckage of an action film .  as a speed clone , it could have benefited from a lot more suspense and perhaps ( god forbid ) even some decent writing .  sadly , i walked away from chill factor only wondering how much fun it could have been .  
pos	so refreshingly incisive is grant that for the first time he'll probably appeal more to guys than to their girlfriends who drag them to this movie for the hugh factor . 
pos	no worse a film than breaking out , and breaking out was utterly charming . 
pos	the police negotiator is the person with the entirely unenviable job of going into ground zero and attempting to talk a dangerous criminal out of doing whatever he or she intends to do .  lives are often at stake , and the criminal is usually armed and most likely mentally unstable , prone to turn on the negotiator at a moment's notice .  the negotiator must therefore be something of an actor , psychologist , and sham artist , in addition to being a police officer ; he must be able to think on his feet and either work toward the goal of ending the confrontation without violence , or failing that , must be prepared to facilitate the conclusion of the crisis through firepower .  most of all , the negotiator must be able to enter a situation with as little intelligence about the scenario as possible , and quickly gain control of the situation , dominate the conversation , and influence the perpetrator into thinking that the end of the conflict is what he really wants .  it takes a pretty smart person to do that .  but what if the hostage-holding criminal is just as smart ?  what if he's also able to think on his feet ?  in fact , what if he also knows all the tricks to turning the situation to his favor ?  it is this circumstance which forms the basis for f . gary gray's the negotiator .  in this film , police negotiator danny roman ( samuel l . jackson ) is tipped off by his partner to corruption within the chicago police force .  when his partner turns up shot to death and internal affairs finds incriminating evidence in roman's home , roman becomes the prime suspect of both embezzling from the police disability fund and murder .  faced with the scorn of most of the police department , and under close scrutiny by the media , roman is forced to turn in his badge in one of those typical scenes in the captain's office .  i don't quite remember if the captain actually said , " i hate to do this , but . . . " ,  although it wouldn't surprise me if he did .  luckily , the film soon shakes off the conventionalism and concentrates on the interesting premise mentioned above .  after being offered a take-it-or-leave-it deal by the district attorney , roman resolves to prove his innocence by walking into the office of internal affairs inspector niebaum ( j . t .  walsh ) , taking him and others hostage , and proclaiming he has been framed .  although roman's actions seem forced due to the compressed nature of his motivational build-up , gray redeems himself by involving us with the negotiations between roman and fellow police negotiator chris sabian ( kevin spacey ) which soon ensue .  jackson , while a superb actor , is miscast in the role of roman .  the actor has become so popular , and so often identified as a protagonist ( notable exceptions can be found , such as in jackie brown ) , that we as an audience have a difficult time believing he will carry out his threats .  the script also clearly sets him up as the good guy who is only trying to prove his innocence .  how can we believe he's going to shoot a hostage , no matter if the hostage tried to kill him earlier ?  unfortunately , this preconception saps the film of some of it's would-be suspenseful moments , and anything good left in those scenes is largely attributed to jackson's acting ability .  almost every time he's in a scene , jackson steals it without looking back .  when spacey appears , the film has already run about a third of its course .  his is an interesting character .  made out to be some kind of negotiating superman , our first look at him has him hopelessly trying to get his family moving to set out on vacation .   " i can talk a man out of blowing up the sears tower , but i can't talk my wife out of the bedroom or my daughter off the phone , " he says .  when he gets the call to action , however , he quickly changes gears and becomes the man we expect him to be .  soon , his character has to negotiate not only with roman , but also with the swat commander ( david morse ) who is itching to send in a team to take roman out , all the while keeping wary of the fbi agents who are waiting to take over the operation , should negotiations fail .  this complex set of pressures are reflected well in sabian the negotiator and spacey the actor .  as the second protagonist , spacey measures up nicely .  gray really lucked out with this cast .  david morse as commander beck , ron rifkin as commander frost , and john spencer as police chief al travis are all more than competent , and can hold their own in scenes with jackson and spacey .  the only problem is the bit of typecasting that results from these choices : morse played a similar role in the rock , rifkin played the d . a .  in l . a . confidential , and spencer played a police detective in cop land .  with the level of acting , however , this can be forgiven .  also in the supporting cast , paul giamatti as rudy , one of the hostages , is notable for the comic relief he provides .  his character is initially so slimy , and giamatti himself just looks so shifty , that you expect to laugh before he even says anything .  fortunately , this doesn't distract from the seriousness of the rest of the film , but instead provides some nice breathers from the level of tension which gray manages to sustain throughout .  j . t . walsh , as the suspicious internal affairs inspector , clocks in with one of his final performances .  sadly , the talented but underrated actor passed away in late february of this year , and the soon to be released pleasantville will mark his last film .  walsh appeared in dozens of movies such as good morning vietnam , backdraft , and nixon .  for one of his best performances , check out sling blade , in which he plays a mental patient sharing a ward with billy bob thornton .  when jack nicholson accepted his best actor oscar in march , walsh was one of the men to whom he credited his success ( the actors performed together in a few good men ) .  the negotiator is actually dedicated to walsh , and while inspector niebaum may not have been his best role , it certainly characterizes the type of character for which walsh had become most famous for playing .  in the end , the negotiator has a plotline that parallels it's reality .  we're served with the premise that two equally deft negotiators are battling each other to resolve the conflict in the manner which will suit each of them best .  as an audience , we're also given a situation where two wonderfully talented actors are thrown into a movie , and we'd like to see if one will dominate the film .  both provide some pretty good entertainment .  
pos	there are some movies that hit you from the first scene and you know it's going to be a trip . igby goes down is one of those movies . 
pos	it's endlessly inventive , consistently intelligent and sickeningly savage . 
pos	no , this is not no alice fairy tale my friends ! this ` wonderland ' fable is based on the true story of the gruesome bloody wonderland murders that occurred back in 80 's california . at the center of this bloodbath was no other than ` johnny wad ' himself . yes , john holmes ! daddy ding - dong used other shotguns than his infamous 13-inch milk machine . besides being a legendary adult film actor , holmes was as also a hardcore drug addict who befriended various hollywood junkies . val kilmer was occasionally majestic as holmes , but for once this holmes character did not milk it through completely . the film possesses a ` who 's who ' of supporting players : josh lucas & dylan mcdermott as hollywood riffraffs , kate bosworth & lisa kudrow as the women in holmes life , and eric bogosian as a menacing tinsletown entrepreneur . these characters do play integral parts , directly or indirectly , in the ` wonderland ' murders . out of this support group , it was josh lucas who was the most fierce & impressive as the ardent ron launius . lucas is gradually escalating into a major hollywood player with such charismatic turns in ` a beautiful mind ' & ` sweet home alabama ' . director james cox sometime proved to be a bit of a coxsucker by displaying a vast amount of overextended scenes , just like holmes ' famous organ . holmes was eventually acquitted of the ` wonderland ' murders . he died of complications from the aids virus . ` wonderland ' will keep you wondering what really happened that bloody night , and if holmes really laid out his weapon . oops ! wrong holmes movie ! ok ! that is enough before i get ` penislized ' i mean penalized . bye holmies ! * * * average
neg	even in terms of the low-grade cheese standards on which it operates , it never quite makes the grade as tawdry trash . 
neg	a slight romantic comedy with a feminist bent , but one with no edge to it .  it turns out to be a conventional film filled with the usual clich ? s and stock characters of this genre .  though it's a well-written and well-acted fluff piece , it still does not have too much to say that is surprising .  it's made for the gentle art-house set , those who don't want something too disturbing to think about .  it's about a critically successful writer husband , alec ( pryce ) , who is so self-absorbed that he's threatened by his department store floor-walking model wife , kate ( bouquet ) , who wants to be a writer .  she meets his crass publisher , vanni corso ( walken ) , another self-absorbed man , and a predictable relationship occurs .  the fireworks occur because she outgrows her husband's first impressions of her as someone who was impressed with his genius and worships at his feet .  she now wants her own identity and her independence .  the film looked like the usual sitcom stuff , and is plagued with the cheap set design features reserved for a tv movie .  the film sagged in the middle of the story from the weight of its tedium , and eventually landed on its rear end with its unspectacular climax .  it's set in london , and it opens as model kate rebuffs sexual advances by a wealthy american shopper , vanni .  she later meets him as her hubby's new upstart publisher who seeks to have her intellectual author husband in his stable in order to give him credibility as a publisher of quality , and he quickly wins favor with her by publishing her vanity novel .  alec who is an obnoxious grouse , someone whom it seems it would be impossible to live with , tries to do everything to stop his wife from having her book published--which only pushes her into the grasping arms of vanni .  the publisher is proud that he's a mamma's boy who never married and is a self-made man who has earned millions .  he has recently acquired a failing old london publishing house and plans to revitalize it , as he proudly tells kate : " if my father could sell pizzas in harlem , i could sell culture in europe . "  the only thing that couldn't be sold , is this stiff story and tired plot line .  the mystery to me , is how the lovely kate could like either man unless she was an insensitive dummy .  she soon divorces the beleaguered alec and marries the soon-to-become-beleaguered vanni .  when she writes a second novel , he rebuffs her the same way her first hubby did .  it ends with the same results that happened to hubby number one , as its story of ambition and lust winds down in a whimper .  a business affair was loosely based on the real-life literary and romantic travails of married authors barbara skelton and cyril connolly , in their celebrated 1950s love triangle .  
pos	notice : this is a review and analysis of exotica .  the first part of this piece is the review , the second part contains some analysis of the movie which might be construed as spoilers .  if you have not seen the movie and after reading the first part you intend to do so , then save the second part for the discussion afterwards .  starring : bruce greenwood , mia kirshner , elias kosteas , don mckellar , arsinee khanijian , sarah polley director : atom egoyan screenplay : atom egoyan  exotica is a film that grows on retrospection .  exotica keeps the viewer guessing about the relationship between the various characters in the film .  all of the people know each other , but apart from that , there seems to be no other reason why to select such set and follow them in this fictional account .  the director hints for possible solutions , using a multi-line plot , so popular with critics in mystery train , and used to good advantage by quentin tarantino in pulp fiction .  exotica reaches a whole new dimension using this technique .  at the end it is surprising to see how well the pieces of the puzzle fit together , in spite their apparent unconnectedness and even misleading features .  the out-of-chronological-order technique has become ever so popular , perhaps even de rigueur , for biographical films .  similarly , we can now expect to see more movies in the future which will use , to varying extent , converging multiplots .  on a first glance , once the multi-plot puzzle in exotica is solved , there seems to be little left to look at .  but perceptive minds which take the time to dig further will be rewarded with interesting views on life or rather , commentaries on views of life .  exotica is very much worth seeing .  it opened to critic's praise worldwide ( i first saw it in mexico city , last december ) .  in canada , it broke records for a movie of its kind , which prompted the american distributor to go for a wide release .  apart from a strong plot , acting is very convincing , and the soundtrack seems as if made for the movie .  the spoon-fed-entertainment crowd may not appreciate this movie , and thus it might last little on screen .  but if you want to try a movie a cut above the crowd , with an originality that is ever so rare , by all means see exotica .  analysis ( * * spoilers * * ahead )  what is behind the complex plot in exotica ?  first , a common theme of the quest for gratification by monetary means .  the lone tax-auditor , the repressed homosexual pet shop owner , the pregnant woman which runs the nightclub , the rich man which has the club remodeled , the audience at the movie theatre , all use personal wealth to buy palliative relief for the penuries of the soul . . . .  then we have the quest for gratification through visual means by most of the same people , including those who sit watching exotica . . . .  in that regard exotica stands for onlookers at a nightclub , for the rich man looking through silver mirrors , and poor-rich people looking at other's people lives through a silver screen .  exotica also stands for unwanted society attention into the lives of other people , such as the tax auditor and the pet shop owner .  exotica is the customer agent looking at the pet shop owner , which in turn is looking at the core of the problems between the strip dancer and the tax auditor through the detached eye of a gay person ( no attraction to the strip dancer ) , and only interested on avoiding jail ( no personal relationship with the tax auditor ) .  in exotica everybody is watching , and what is worse , everybody knows .  second , exotica is about isolated people holding back their feelings ; about people which by voluntary or involuntary means transfer their view of reality to other characters .  the strip dancer becomes the proverbial daughter , the dj becomes the proverbial killer by means of breaking the relationship between the father and the proverbial daughter .  the niece becomes the baby sitter , the baby sitter becomes the dancer , and the dancer becomes the proverbial daughter .  the pet shop owner becomes the proverbial dj , by finding the proverbial daughter .  a chain made of real and imagined links coming around full circle , just as everything comes around to a fitting whole at the end of the movie .  
neg	cruel and inhuman cinematic punishment . . . simultaneously degrades its characters , its stars and its audience . 
pos	like these russo guys lookin' for their mamet instead found their sturges . 
neg	interview with the assassin is structured less as a documentary and more as a found relic , and as such the film has a difficult time shaking its blair witch project real-time roots . 
neg	the story's so preposterous that i didn't believe it for a second , despite the best efforts of everyone involved . 
neg	screenwriter dan schneider and director shawn levy substitute volume and primary colors for humor and bite . 
pos	it's definitely an improvement on the first blade , since it doesn't take itself so deadly seriously . 
pos	in , " the muse " albert brooks plays steven phillips , a hollywood screenwriter who after winning a humanitarian award for his work is dumped by his studio .  they claim that he's lost his edge and his agent is quick to agree with them .  he knows that he needs to write something fresh and original and quick or else his career will be over .  so he turns to his " best " friend , jack ( jeff bridges ) another screenwriter who's enjoyed success after success .  on the way over to jack's house steven sees jack helping an attractive woman ( sharon stone ) into a cab and begins to think : is he having an affair ?  when confronted , jack relunctently tells him that this mystery woman is , in fact , a muse , a mythological figure who is believed to have inspired all creativity , and has helped him garner his success .   " she doesn't do any actual writing , " he is told , " but inspires you . "  steven is excited by what he's hearing and asks jack to call her up to see if she'll take steven on as a new client .  jack arranges a meeting between the two and suggests that steven bring her a present , preferably something from tiffany's .  after the meeting the muse , sarah decides to take on steven , but at a price : she wants a suite at the four seasons and wants steven to perform odd tasks for her ( like bringing her salads in the middle of the night . )  steven's wife ( andy macdowell ) sees him at a food store and questions him about why he has tampons in his wagon .  steven confesses everything and , although at first suspicious , she later allows sarah to move into their guest room and eventually into their life .  the only question for steven is if the muse is worth all the trouble he's going through for her .  and that's a question only time will tell .   " the muse " is albert brooks' sixth film as writer/director/actor ( he co-wrote with monica johnson ) and although it's a good movie it's not up to the level of his best works ( " defending your life " and " mother " ) .  the problem lies in the script , and for a movie that relies on its dialogue for its humor , there aren't nearly as many laughs as they are chuckles despite a few good one-liners .  it has a great premise but doesn't deliver up to it's full potential .  but , i like albert brooks in this film and i think that we can all identify with steven phillips a little bit .  he may whine and complain , but he just wants to support his family and be happy .  and i like sharon stone in this movie too ; it's a nice change of pace for her .  and i also enjoyed the cameos featuring the likes of rob reiner , james cameron and martin scorsese .  and although " the muse " doesn't have as much to say about hollywood as robert altman's " the player " i still left the theater feeling good .  and that's something i wish i got out of more movies .  
pos	a first-class , thoroughly involving b movie that effectively combines two surefire , beloved genres -- the prison flick and the fight film . 
neg	in all the annals of the movies , few films have been this odd , inexplicable and unpleasant . 
pos	without ever becoming didactic , director carlos carrera expertly weaves this novelistic story of entangled interrelationships and complex morality . 
neg	one of the contributors to the destruction of the batman film franchise chris o'donnell stars in this remake of buster keaton's 1925 silent film seven chances .  now i've never seen seven chances , as i'm more of a chaplin fan than a keaton fan , but i seriously doubt that the classic version could be as insipid as this .  o'donnell plays jimmie shannon , the manager of a pool table manufacturing company .  he also fears commitment , and despite dating anne ( renee zellweger ) for over three years , he's unwilling to marry her .  his reasons ?  well he's a guy you see , and well , guys are like stallions , and they apparently don't like to be roped or something ( hey , that's the movie's explanation . . .  i'd marry renee zellweger in a second ) .  eventually it comes time for jimmie to propose , and when he does , it's the most absurd proposal ever uttered by a man ever .  he essentially says to her , " you win " and hands her a ring .  the audience should now hate this character .  i did .  then the meat of the plot presents itself .  jimmie's grandfather ( peter ustinov , completely wasted ) dies and leaves jimmie his entire estate of 100 million dollars as well as ownership of the pool table business .  however , in order to get the money and save the jobs of the factory workers , jimmie must be married before his next birthday ( which is just over 24 hours away ) .  having blown his chances with anne , jimmie proceeds to track down all his prior girlfriends and suggest a " business proposition " .  the movie wasn't half bad by this time , surprisingly .  it wasn't boring me , and even managed to read my thoughts at one point .  ustinov's character left a video will , and while he's reading the ridiculous clause in it , i thought to myself " what is this , brewster's millions ? " .  as soon as i thought it , hal holbrook's character actually says " what is this , brewster's millions ? "  it was quite surreal .  something happens though during the film's final act that caused me to sharply drop the rating it was going to receive .  up to that point , all of jimmie's prior girlfriends had turned down his " business proposition " which i felt was good .  at least the film wasn't painting women to be cold hearted gold diggers .  when jimmie has no other options , his goofy friend ( played by artie lange , making a career out of playing the goofy friend ) places an ad in the newspaper that somehow becomes a front page story .  at this point , 100 , 000 women don wedding gowns and head off to persuade jimmie to pick them to be his bride .  these women arrive at jimmie's location and immediately start bullying him about what he's looking for in a woman .  when he's had enough of their unjustified attacks , he tells the angry mob that there's been a mistake and he won't be marrying any of them .  as a result , the women proceed to chase him around the city , in hopes of catching him and tearing his limbs off .  this goes on for the rest of the film .  it's just chris o'donnell running from 100 , 000 obnoxious , greedy , angry and stupid women .  my groans of disgust could be heard for miles .  the film finally ended ( thankfully ) , but to this day i'm still groaning .  the bachelor is available on dvd from new line home video .  it contains the film in both full frame and in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , cast and crew info , and special dvd-rom features .  the original theatrical trailer is also on the disc , which contains scenes not in the film .  apparently there was even more footage of the gang of brides chasing o'donnell around the city , and at one point o'donnell is leaping from the tops of buses .  so that was bad enough to be cut , but the other 30 minutes of bride shenanigans was good ?  ugh .  
neg	there is no pleasure in watching a child suffer . just embarrassment and a vague sense of shame . 
pos	the plot of the comeback curlers isn't very interesting actually , but what i like about men with brooms and what is kind of special is how the film knows what's unique and quirky about canadians . 
neg	be forewarned , if you're depressed about anything before watching this film , you may just end up trying to drown yourself in a lake afterwards . 
neg	the only way to tolerate this insipid , brutally clueless film might be with a large dose of painkillers . 
pos	as they used to say in the 1950s sci-fi movies , signs is a tribute to shyamalan's gifts , which are such that we'll keep watching the skies for his next project . 
neg	nohe has made a decent 'intro' documentary , but he feels like a spectator and not a participant . 
neg	as aimless as an old pickup skidding completely out of control on a long patch of black ice , the movie makes two hours feel like four . 
neg	the adventure doesn't contain half the excitement of balto , or quarter the fun of toy story 2 . 
pos	the best of the pierce brosnan james bond films to date . 
neg	this is the first film i've ever seen that had no obvious directing involved . 
neg	rarely has leukemia looked so shimmering and benign . 
pos	this is a nervy , risky film , and villeneuve has inspired croze to give herself over completely to the tormented persona of bibi . 
pos	schrader examines crane's decline with unblinking candor . 
neg	have you ever been in an automobile accident where you've miraculously walked away with only a few scratches , yet the car has been obliterated into an unrecognizable , mangled wreck ?  well , that has never actually happened to me and i hope that none of us will ever experience this situation .  but after watching this inane exercise of a movie , i certainly feel that i've miraculously walked away unscathed after a two-hour ride that mercilessly careens back and forth before finally plummeting into an icy pond .  oddly , `eye of the beholder , ' which is a psychological-romance-thriller , starts off promisingly enough when the opening sequence introduces us to a british intelligence agent , called the eye ( ewan mcgregor ) , working in washington dc .  in the humorous opening scene , he eyes a top lawyer across the street in his office with his pants down .  using an array of high-tech surveillance and communications equipment , he proceeds to transmit pictures of the bared lawyer to pc screens and fax machines in his office .  the law firm's employees get a good chuckle .  the audience gets a good chuckle .  the eye is later given an assignment where he encounters a beautiful woman ( ashley judd ) .  there is something compelling about this mysterious woman .  despite her glamorous looks , however , we learn that she is a psychopath with a propensity to kill men that get too close to her .  after the murders , she sobs while singing the christmas tune `little bluebirds' and laments about being abandoned by her father long ago .  after each killing , she puts on a different wig , assumes a new name , and then makes her way to another state .  the eye has witnessed all her murderous transgressions .  but he does not alert the authorities .  he somehow empathizes with her sense of loss .  the eye , it turns out , also is haunted by his past .  his daughter was taken away from him and he anguishes this loss every day of his life .  his tormented psyche creates a ghost-like image of his daughter with which he engages in conversation .  she becomes a sort of spectral adviser , and one thing that the ghostly daughter says is that he must help the woman .  he now diverts his energies into trying to help her find some kind of salvation .  it doesn't matter that he has witnessed all of her murders .  and it doesn't matter that the eye is abnormally reticent , hiding his entire life behind computer screens .  he follows her to a dozen different locales and shadows her every move to keep her out of trouble .  when a crazed druggie ( jason priestley ) attacks her , he shows up for some quick butt kicking .  when the police are closing in to arrest her , he provides a distraction so that she can escape .  all the while , the woman has no idea who her guardian angel is and the eye stays just out of sight .  peculiar .  how bad is this movie ?  i refer you to my `review quote source' litmus test .  just take a look at the full-page ad in the newspaper and see where they are pulling quotes .  for this movie , they are from magazines called `flaunt' and `mirabella . '  no doubt , they were impressed with judd's series of catwalks and disguise changes .  the major problem with `eye of the beholder' is that the film jerks forward , always unsure of its ultimate destination .  if it was a thriller , there was little to keep us entranced .  if it was a love story , there was absolutely no emotional pull .  completely disjointed in structure , it's only saving grace was its stylish look which reminded me of my favorite car commercial ( the one where the `6' on the tachometer dissolves into a winding road and a passenger rail car dissolves into a small miniature on a child's train set ) .  i am also still hopeful that ashley judd will find a serious role to showcase her potential talents .  beyond that , the film is hopelessly out-of-control and is in need of seriously better traction and handling .  
neg	too ordinary to restore [harmon] to prominence , despite some creepy scenes that evoke childish night terrors , and a praiseworthy attempt to generate suspense rather than gross out the audience . 
neg	the film makes a fatal mistake : it asks us to care about a young man whose only apparent virtue is that he is not quite as unpleasant as some of the people in his life . 
neg	it's best to avoid imprisonment with the dull , nerdy folks that inhabit cherish . 
pos	sleek and arty . 
neg	the " fab 4 " of ronald reagan high are four stuck-up girls , played by rose mcgowan , rebecca gayheart , julie benz and charlotte roldan , who overdress like 4 posh spice wannabes .  their daily ritual is to parade up and down the school halls like royalty , and their constant reflex action is to grab their compacts so they can check their make-up and powder their cheeks .  under no circumstances will they ever let themselves be seen eating in public .  in writer and director darren stein's jawbreaker , it isn't as funny as it sounds .  in fact , it isn't funny at all .  stein has taken the black comedy of a teen movie like heathers and stripped it of any intelligence , wit or charm .  his actresses toss off their lines so fast that they don't have time to add any emotion .  and all of his female characters have considerably more lipstick than brains .  the setup for the movie has one of the fab 4 , liz , who is referred to as " the princess di of reagan high , " be killed when a prank by the other 3 goes wrong .  the princess di reference is in bad taste , as is much of the movie .  granted , bad taste can sometimes be funny , but the mere presence of bad taste doesn't guarantee it .  liz's girlfriends stick a jawbreaker that is literally larger than a golf ball in her mouth , tape her mouth shut , and stick her bound body in the trunk of a car .  when they open the trunk later , liz is dead .  they eventually put her blue and bruised body into a sexual position and make it look like liz was the victim of a brutal rape .  these realistic and disgusting scenes of a dead , seminude teen have a pornographic feeling that is hard to forget and will likely turn the stomach of many a viewer .  the film's dialog not only isn't funny , it's trite .  one nerdy young girl introduces herself with " my name is fern mayo , as in hold the mayo . "  when fern discovers what has happened , the fab 3 make her an offer she can't refuse -- make-up !  they cake it on her and welcome her to the clan .  the parents in the movie brag about learning parenting skills from watching oprah .  the teachers fare no better , especially in the ridiculous lines they are given .   " miss shayne , please cover your bosom , " one young teacher , who has been made up to look old and ugly , says without any conviction .   " this is a learning institution , not a brothel . "  besides the obvious question of why this movie was ever made , there is one other question that i'd like to ask the director .  why do you have a phone number start with 555 if you going to cover the rest of the number anyway ?  in a cameo , pam grier plays detective vera cruz , who investigates liz's murder .  as she interrogates the other people , she stares at them like they are all idiots , proving that she is the only one that gets it .  i am sure that if the hard nosed detective cruz were to see this movie , she'd walk out after about 5 minutes , and you'd be well advised to do the same if you should happen to find yourself in a theater showing it .  jawbreaker runs 1 : 27 .  it is rated r for violence , gore , profanity and sex .  i would advise everyone to avoid it , but if teenagers go they should be older and mature .  
neg	we're left with a story that tries to grab us , only to keep letting go at all the wrong moments . 
neg	i'm sure if you're a hartley fan , you might enjoy yourself . . . me , i didn't care for it . 
neg	i caught this stink bomb of a movie recently on a cable channel , and was reminded of how terrible i thought it was in 1980 when first released . many reviewers out there are n't old enough to remember the enormous hype that surrounded this movie and the struggle between stanley kubrick and steven king . the enormously popular novel had legions of fans eager to see a supposed " master " director put this multi - layered supernatural story on the screen . " salem 's lot " had already been ruined in the late 1970s as a tv mini - series , directed by tobe hooper ( he of " texas chainsaw massacre " fame ) and was badly handled , turning the major villain of the book into a " chiller theatre " vampire with no real menace at all thus destroying the entire premise . fans hoped that a director of kubrick 's stature would succeed where hooper had failed . it did n't happen . sure , this movie looks great and has a terrific opening sequence but after those few accomplishments , it 's all downhill . jack nicholson can not be anything but jack nicholson . he 's always crazy and did n't bring anything to his role here . i do n't care that many reviewers here think he 's all that in this clinker , the " here 's johnny ! " bit notwithstanding ... he 's just awful in this movie . so is everyone else , for that matter . scatman crothers ' character , dick halloran , was essential to the plot of the book , yet kubrick kills him off in one of the lamest " shock " sequences ever put on film . i remember the audience in the theater i saw this at booing repeatedly during the last 45 minutes of this wretched flick , those that stayed that is ... many left . king 's books really never translate well to film since so much of the narratives occur internally to his characters , and often metaphysically . kubrick jettisoned the tension between the living and the dead in favor of style here and the resulting mess ends so far from the original material that we ultimately do n't really care what happens to whom . this movie still stinks and why so many think it 's a horror masterpiece is beyond me .
pos	baby-faced renner is eerily convincing as this bland blank of a man with unimaginable demons within . 
pos	this is one of polanski's best films . 
neg	the film's needlessly opaque intro takes its doe-eyed crudup out of pre-9/11 new york and onto a cross-country road trip of the homeric kind . 
pos	in my reviews i try to make gentle recommendations rather than telling you what to see or what not to see .  i realize that we all have different tastes and i cannot predict what my audience will like and what they will dislike .  but in the case of american beauty , i must make an exception .  if you haven't yet seen it , go see it .  now .  stop reading this review and head for your local multiplex , then after you've seen it , come back .  i'll wait here .  welcome back .  if you followed my advice ( and i see no reason why you should not have , do you ? ) ,  i'm sure you've just had one of the richest cinematic experiences of your life .  american beauty is an extraordinary film , a powerful , jolting exploration of the dark side of the american dream .  it's humorous but it isn't funny because of the unrelenting ominous undercurrent that runs throughout the whole production .  mixing comedy and the darkest of drama was the way this film was intended , and by god , it works , making it one of the year's very best .  lester burnham ( kevin spacey ) has entered the mother of all mid-life crises .  he is living life without a purpose .  he is bored , depressed and sick of his sheltered , insignificant existence .  he barely ever talks to his family , has no sex life , is stuck at a dead-end job and thinks he has no reason to live .  but one day , when he and his equally troubled wife ( annette bening ) attend one of his daughter's ( thora birch ) cheerleading performances , he sees something that makes him come alive .  what he sees is the performance by his daughter's friend , the head cheerleader .  he develops a lust for the promiscuous young girl ; an obsession which soon becomes pedophilic in nature .  but for the first time , lester feels that he is actually living .  this crush is only the beginning .  lester proceeds to make more and more radical changes in his life , buying the car of his dreams , cursing off the boss and quitting his job ( " today i quit my job , told the boss to f * * * himself and blackmailed him for $60 , 000 -- would you pass the asparagus please ? " ) ,  buying drugs from the voyeur-next-door ( ricky fitts , a teenager who mysteriously videotapes what he considers to be " beauty " ) and refusing to be docile in family affairs .  his new attitude further alienates his daughter , only reassuring her that her parents are nothing more than freaks of nature unjustly forced on her by the powers that be , and inspiring her to enter a relationship with her eccentric neighbor .  and the burnhams's neighbors provide american beauty with a significant chunk of its dramatic momentum .  ricky fitts ( wes bentley ) serves as the film's thematic center , providing the obscure , powerful meaning of the title .  colonel fitts , the father , is one of the most fascinating and complex characters in the movie , even considering his limited screentime .  kevin spacey has never been better , and this performance will certainly earn him a chance to put a little gold person on his mantel .  he never plays his droll character as a freak , rather , he effectively portrays him as a normal person led to drastic self-exploration by his dissatisfaction with life .  spacey is poignant and devastating in the role of a lifetime .  equally astonishing is young thora birch , who plays her potentially stereotypical rebellious teen character with suprising feeling and tenderness .  at two hours and ten minutes , american beauty didn't feel nearly long enough .  it's a complicated , unforgettable film that , like the ice storm two years ago , dares to explore the darkest reaches of suburban life .  powerfully and cynically , it dissects the notion of the pretty house with the white picket fence and appealing garden being the american dream .  it claims that this picture-perfect image is just that -- an image , and hiding behind it are lives much darker than common knowledge would have it .  the dark , deeply ironic ending , though given away by our narrator in the first few minutes of the movie , stays with you for weeks after it's all over .  american beauty is just the kind of uncompromising film hollywood needs every now and then to counterbalance the mindless drivel we see released ; even more so considering it's a masterpiece .  
neg	a portrait of alienation so perfect , it will certainly succeed in alienating most viewers . 
neg	certainly beautiful to look at , but its not very informative about its titular character and no more challenging than your average television biopic . 
pos	a glorious mess . 
neg	arguably the year's silliest and most incoherent movie . 
neg	whether jason x is this bad on purpose is never clear . but one thing's for sure : it never comes close to being either funny or scary . 
pos	the american action film has been slowly drowning to death in a sea of asian wire-fu copycats .  it's not a pretty death , and it's leaving the likes of schwartznager , stallone , and van damme wearing cement galoshes at the bottom of a kung fu sea .  sometimes , the mix results in a mind-blowing spectacle unlike any other .  quality action with amazing and exciting stunt work , as in 1999's the matrix , can be a real gem .  but too often hollywood gets it wrong , even when they pay off chinese directors .  flying ninjas and floating karate masters have been replaced by soaring bronx detectives and slow motion kicking scientists .  mostly it's laughable .  in hollywood's rush to emulate the success of the matrix , trademark asian stunt choreography has become more of a joke than an art form .  but iron monkey , the latest asian import , shows us how to get it right .  iron monkey ( actually a reissue of a 1993 film ) is the story of a 19th chinese vigilante ( rongguang yu ) , fighting with his own unique style of shaolin kung fu for the rights of the oppressed and the bellies of the hungry .  but it is also a piece of the narrative of legendary chinese film hero wong fei-hong , most recently seen in one of the most overlooked , and possibly best films of 2000 , drunken master 2 ( released in the u . s . as the legend of drunken master ) .  unlike drunken master 2 , which stars jackie chan as an adult fei-hong , iron monkey finds a much younger fei-hong ( sze-man tsang ) and his father wong kei-ying ( yen chi dan ) thrust into the middle of iron monkey's fight against oppression .  iron monkey succeeds as no kung fu film since drunken master 2 . at times , fighting styles , especially that of monkey himself , do devolve into the ridiculous twinkle-toed floating of films like crouching tiger , hidden dragon , director yuen wo ping eventually remembers to bring his action scenes back to earth .  iron monkey is at its heart a hardcore , kung fu action film rather than any kind of drama a la crouching tiger .  however , there are brief moments of profoundness shared between characters , such as those that pass between our outlaw hero and his good-hearted but misguided enemy , chief fox .  in those moments , and in others , iron monkey manages to transcend its mindless kung fu nature to touch the hearts and minds of its audience .  while in no way the equal of a masterpiece like drunken master 2 , iron monkey dances quite nicely to the invading kung fu tune .  aka siunin wong fei-hung tsi titmalau .  
pos	a deeply felt and vividly detailed story about newcomers in a strange new world . 
neg	come on ! get over with the pakistan bashing guys . bollywood can not only make brilliant movies- but can seriously affect a generation of viewers . i am a huge bollywood fan- but anti - pakistan movies just make me wince too much to enjoy screenplay , cinematography , action sequences- everything . i 'm really happy to see that viewers on both sides of the border are rejecting propaganda , and there are movies like main hoon na out there that have done brilliantly not only because they deserved to because of the quality of its bollywood masala- but also because it tries to say : give peace a chance and shows that there are crazies out there on both sides who do not represent the masses .
neg	extremely bad . 
neg	when it comes to entertainment , children deserve better than pokemon 4ever . 
pos	the film's plot may be shallow , but you've never seen the deep like you see it in these harrowing surf shots . 
neg	no dia em que aceitou dirigir esta continuação , harold ramis deve ter saído da cama com o pé esquerdo . e aqueles que decidiram assistir a este filme também . 
neg	your appreciation of it will depend on what experiences you bring to it and what associations you choose to make . 
neg	while serving sara does have a long way to go before it reaches the level of crudity in the latest austin powers extravaganza , there's nothing here to match that movie's intermittent moments of inspiration . 
neg	predictably soulless techno-tripe . 
neg	ninety minutes of viva castro ! can be as tiresome as 9 seconds of jesse helms' anti- castro rhetoric , which are included
neg	a frankenstein mishmash that careens from dark satire to cartoonish slapstick , bartleby performs neither one very well . 
pos	precocious smarter-than-thou wayward teen struggles to rebel against his oppressive , right-wing , propriety-obsessed family . anyone else seen this before ? 
pos	a small movie with a big impact . 
pos	if you're not into the pokemon franchise , this fourth animated movie in four years won't convert you -- or even keep your eyes open . but fans should have fun meeting a brand-new pokemon called celebi . 
neg	far more enjoyable than its predecessor . 
pos	fierce , glaring and unforgettable . 
pos	paid in full is remarkably engaging despite being noticeably derivative of goodfellas and at least a half dozen other trouble-in-the-ghetto flicks . 
neg	rainy days and movies about the disintegration of families always get me down . 
neg	no cliche escapes the perfervid treatment of gang warfare called ces wild . 
neg	just an average comedic dateflick but not a waste of time . 
neg	there is nothing redeeming about this movie . 
neg	the characters are based on stock clichés , and the attempt to complicate the story only defies credibility . 
neg	michael robbins' hardball is quite the cinematic achievement .  in about two hours , we get a glancing examination of ghetto life , a funeral with a heartfelt eulogy , speeches about never giving up , a cache of cute kids ( including a fat one with asthma ) , a hard-luck gambler who finds salvation in a good woman and a climactic " big game , " where the underdogs prove to have a bigger bite than anyone ever imagined .  all that's needed is a guy getting hit in the nuts and a food fight to have the first film solely based on cinematic clich ? s .  i can't wait to see the deleted scenes when it comes out on dvd .  obviously , hardball is a strikeout of a movie that never gets the bat anywhere near the ball .  it stars keanu reeves as the aforementioned gambler , who seems to owe every bookie in chicago an amount of money that rivals the gross national product of guam .  out of solutions , he begs his successful corporate friend ( the always welcome mike mcglone ) to lend him $5 , 000 .  instead , mcglone offers reeves the chance to help him coach a youth baseball team from the projects for a nice weekly stipend .  reeves , who wants to keep his fingers , accepts the offer , but discovers mcglone is only too happy to let him handle the team entirely .  the drowsy-voiced protagonist must teach the sassy inner city kids the baseball basics in a life of absentee parents and merciless gangs .  and maybe , just maybe , they'll play in the big championship game .  one of the glorious surprises in the screenplay by john gatins ( summer catch ) , adapted from daniel coyle's non-fiction book , is that there aren't any .  the movie coasts from heartfelt moment to heartfelt moment like a zombie .  that wouldn't be so bad , if the characters had an ounce of subtlety or humanity to them .  most of the kids' time is spent yelling at each other , talking in slang and acting surprised .  there's little that's naturally amusing about them , as they all seem to know the cameras are rolling .  the worst of the lot is a tough-talking younger player ( dewayne warren ) whose sole purpose , as the movie unfolds , is being an emotional pawn , a tactic so utterly despicable i can't find the right words to express myself .  the adults also don't fare well .  reeves is impressively uninspiring as the down-on-his-luck loser .  the character is poorly written , but reeves gives another charisma-free performance .  every time he speaks , he sounds like he just got up from a long nap and is gradually waking up .  kids are supposed to rally around this guy ?  diane lane , who co-stars as reeves' obligatory love interest , remains a glowing screen presence ( see my dog skip for better proof ) .  it's too bad that her role here consists of uttering lines like , " these kids trust you , and they don't trust anyone ! "  then there's d . b .  sweeney as an evil rival coach and john hawkes as reeves' scummy betting buddy and other unoriginal characters you've seen before and hope never to see again .  i wanted hardball to be good .  robbins' varsity blues was a funny and alternately taut tale of texas high school football that had ali larter smothered in whipped cream and jon voight sneering at everything that moved .  i haven't seen robbins' goofy ready to rumble in its entirety , but i am intrigued that " macho man " randy savage and martin landau can exist in the same movie without there being serious worldwide repercussions .  robbins obviously needs to go back to his forte -- making sports movies for guys and not cutesy , cuddly pap such as hardball , which also manages to annoy and insult the audience .  here's hoping that happens in the immediate future .  
pos	huppert and girardot give performances of exceptional honesty . 
pos	yes , i call this a perfect movie . not one boring second , a fantastic cast of mostly little known actresses and actors , a great array of characters who are all well defined and who all have understandable motives i could sympathize with , perfect lighting , crisp black and white photography , a fitting soundtrack , an intelligent and harmonious set design and a story that is engaging and works . it 's one of those prime quality pictures on which all the pride of hollywood should rest , the mark everyone should endeavor to reach . barbara stanwyck is simply stunning . there was nothing this actress could n't do , and she always went easy on the melodramatic side . no hysterical outbursts with this lady - i always thought she was a better actress than screen goddesses like bette davis or joan crawford , and this movie confirmed my opinion . always as tough as nails and at the same time conveying true sentiments . it is fair to add that she also got many good parts during her long career , and this one is by far the least interesting . the title fits this movie very well . it is about desires , human desires i think everyone can understand . actually , no one seems to be scheming in this movie , all characters act on impulse , everybody wants to be happy without hurting anybody else . the sad fact that this more often than not leads to complications makes for the dramatic content into which i will not go here . i liked what this movie has to say about youth , about maturing and about the necessity to compromise . the movie i associate most with this one is alfred hitchcock 's shadow of a doubt , it creates a similar atmosphere of idealized and at the same time caricatured small town america . the story has a certain similarity with fritz lang 's considerably harsher movie clash by night , made one year earlier , where stanywck stars in a similar part . i can also recommend it .
neg	cattaneo reworks the formula that made the full monty a smashing success . . . but neglects to add the magic that made it all work . 
pos	its direction , its script , and weaver's performance as a vaguely discontented woman of substance make for a mildly entertaining 77 minutes , if that's what you're in the mood for . 
pos	savvy director robert j . siegel and his co-writers keep the story subtle and us in suspense . 
neg	the final result makes for adequate entertainment , i suppose , but anyone who has seen chicago on stage will leave the theater feeling they've watched nothing but a pale imitation of the real deal . 
neg	plunkett & macleane marks the directing debut of jake scott , brother of ridley and tony .  naturally , this got me worried .  would jake's talent be inherited from ridley or tony ?  if it was from ridley , than the movie would be a thoughtful suspensor with action thrown in .  if it was from tony , it would be wham bang drivel .  unfortunately , the latter is true for this worthless picture with little charm .  carlyle and miller are the titular highwaymen , plunkett ( carlyle ) who is poor and unruly , and captain james macleane ( miller ) a clean cut gentleman .  as the tagline clearly wants to make known , they rob the rich and nothing else .  the film basically follows the rowdy hold ups the two stage , along with romantic interludes with lady rebecca ( tyler . )  hot on both their tails is mr chance ( ken stott ) who wants to see them both dead .  plunkett & macleane is an annoying little film that serves little purpose .  although undoubtedly slick and fast paced , there's very little merit contained in the film .  carlyle and miller are fun enough as the foul mouthed pair , although their characters are criminally undeveloped .  it appears that much of the money has been spent on the expensive looking sets and costumes , but not on the script .  the five ( ! ) screenwriters ( three credited ) have produced an still born movie : there's very little development in the story .  also , major events , such as mr . cash finding out who plunkett and macleane really are , are so rushed that they barely happened .  the story is a bit of a mess , frankly .  the performances aren't bad : carlyle and miller are typical lads , but liv tyler is a huge disappointment as the love interest .  her irritable , stilted performance sticks out like a sore thumb , and i was quite unsure on what accent she was trying to put on .  she looks nice , though .  more interesting is alan cummings as the campy lord rochester , and although his character amounts to nothing more than a two dimensional comedy gay character , he hams it up well .  ken stott is suitably evil as chance , but again he is nothing but a flat character .  i didn't particularly care when the predictable death sequence arrived .  although a disappointment in writing , and a minor success in acting , the film certainly look lavish , with good costumes , and wonderful sets .  but production design alone can't save a movie , especially a movie as bad as this mess .  jake scott would be more suited to directing a music video rather than this failed update of a period drama : the only update seems to be the fact that everyone must talk dirty , with 'f * ck this' and 'stand and f * cking deliver' splattered all over the place .  the mtv editing and direction are flash enough , but in the end decidedly empty .  plunkett & macleane is a massive disappointment .  although somewhat enjoyable during parts , it's so light it could float off the screen if it wasn't just images on a reel .  there's no thought , no development , no plot , just a series of manic edits and quirky camera angles to make this film appeal to gen-xers .  although it's a great idea : update a period drama to the mtv generation : it's execution is awful , and would more likely bore than excite .  sloppy and occasionally off puttingly tasteless , it's hard to recommend plunkett & macleane as a movie , but easy to recommend it as a overlong music video .  give it a miss .  
neg	a friend invites you to a movie .  this film would evade the explosions and special effects of standard summer fare , and be grounded in reality .  the plot is as follows : after a terrifying incident , a mother and her independent daughter separate from the father and move away from the city .  they need fresh air to get some perspective , maybe to start over .  romance begins to brew , however , as one of the locals , played by an international superstar in rugged clothing , sparks things up , ( especially at a country-western slow dance ) .  it stars a rising young starlet , helms a good cast , and is directed by one of the better actor-turned-directors in hollywood .  you accept .  you jump at the opportunity to see , what you believe to be , _the horse whisperer_ .  but , poor moviegoer , you have been conned .  alas , you find yourself watching , incredulously , _hope floats_ .  oh , woe .  your hope has sunk .  why was this movie made ?  why was it released ?  it is a travesty on nearly every level , and has the authority to sink the careers of nearly everyone involved .  at the hands of a better script , the film could have been a gem .  but it is clueless as to what it is about , and only succeeds in transferring same cluelessness to us poor viewers .  _hope floats_ stars sandra bullock as birdy , who , after discovering her husband has been cheating on her with her best friend ( on national television no less ) , takes her daughter and drives back to her home , helmed by a countryish bumpkin eccentric played by gena rowlands , ( she decorates with stuffed wildlife ) .  birdy's nephew , travis ( played by _leave it to beaver_'s cameron finley ) , is under her custody , and in one of the film's many failed in-jokes , is always seen wearing a different halloween costume .  what is the point of this ?  does it make any sense ?  is it supposed to be funny ?  the point of the film is to show that the family is eccentric , but i was convinced that the grandma should have been locked up for endangering the mental welfare of a child .  all of this undercuts the plot , of which there is none .  there are only many scenes that are supposed to register emotion .  there's the scene where birdy , who used to be the prom queen , is humbled by approaching a peer she once mocked , for a job .  there's the scene where birdy dances with her father , in the hospital for alzheimer's .  and then there's the sentimental scenes with justin , played by harry connick jr . , who is taking a liking to her again , showing her a beautiful pad that he built from scratch .  and during each of these scenes , i was sidetracked by my earlier question .  what sort of eccentric grandmother go through such great pains as to provide a dog costume , a kermit costume , a cowboy costume ( with whip ) , and a full furred barney costume for her grandson to wear during dinner ?  what sort of warped ramifications would this lead for the rest of his life ?  outside of this , there are other sure signs of screenwriters block .  when the daughter stands up to the bully at school .  when birdy almost loses her job .  when the family pulls in a goofy lip-synch to cheer someone up .  when someone dies .  when the daughter cries , ( no , wails ) in exasperation that her father is not coming back .  in a movie like this , you notice the strings being pushed , and you sit there , comatose , hoping it will end .  who can survive such a debacle ?  i worry for bullock's career , which has been running on auto-pilot for the last few years .  she has an attitude , a solid perkiness , and can drive a bus--but she can't handle the emotional scenes , much less hold a southern accent .  harry connick , jr . is worse--stick with singing , or get some acting lessons , please !  gena rowlands is the best part of the film .  but she's such a good actress , that it staggers the mind that she's weighed down by such lukewarm material here .  it would be a severe tragedy if the recurring star of john cassavettes' great films is known for this film .  two notes to forest whittaker : ( 1 ) cut the slow-motion sequences .  there are twelve times where you undercut your own direction by such a failed trick .  have you done so , you could have shaved off ten-minutes of this almost unbearable debacle .   ( 2 ) you've had to know something was wrong if your cinematographer's filter makes the candlelight appear like little " x " s .  you're not a bad director , but you can't change a terrible script .  there's a recurring scene where birdy , working at the neighborhood fotomat , finds the machine go wrong , and image after destroyed , warped , dark image appear .  think about it .  a succession of destroyed images may have been more entertaining than this movie .  
pos	while insomnia is in many ways a conventional , even predictable remake , nolan's penetrating undercurrent of cerebral and cinemantic flair lends ( it ) stimulating depth . 
neg	serving sara should be served an eviction notice at every theater stuck with it . 
pos	 " the blair witch project " was perhaps one of a kind , a unique film that played completely on its own merit , managing to scare even the most experienced horror fans out of their senses .  its success made a sequel inevitable , but this is not the sequel , i suspect , anyone much wanted .  after the release of " the blair witch project " , tourists have practically invaded the small town of burkettsville , in order to get a glimpse of the blair witch .  locals have turned this mass hysteria into a great business opportunity , selling twig-sculptures , stones and dirt like those in the movie , and the exasperated local sheriff patrols the woods with a bullhorn , shouting , " get out of these woods and go home !  there is no goddamned blair witch ! " .  jeff ( ) is one of those people , who has used the sudden popularity of the small town to his advantage .  after he got released from the mental institution , he created a mobile business that attracts thousands of customers through the internet .  as the movie starts he is leading one of these groups into the woods , on the " blair witch hunt " .  among the five strangers is stephen and his girlfriend , the pregnant tristen , who are writing a book on the hysteria caused by the film called " the blair witch : history or hysteria ? " , and kim , who dresses in black and has some psychic powers .  the last member of the crew is erica , a young beautiful witch-wannabe , who constantly quotes from the wiccan lore , saying " the first rule of wicca is , do no harm , because whatever you do will come back to you threefold . "  this strange group plunges into the woods , where they begin to argue about their different approaches to the experience .  on the very first night that they decide to spend under the stars amidst the ruins of parr's abandoned house , strange things start happening .  when they wake up their equipment is gone and only the tapes remain .  after a while they discover strange markings on their bodies .  they are somehow lost in time , as it loops uncontrollably back and forth .  they are all haunted by hallucinations and horrible nightmares and soon they can not see the difference between dreams and reality .  the only thing that they are sure of is that they have brought something or someone with them from the woods . .  documentary director joe berlinger ( " paradice lost " ) helms " blair witch 2 " , leaving the creators of the first film ( dan myrick and ed sanches ) in the background .  the opening scenes--the documentary showing the townspeople affected by the first film-- is a more promising approach , because instead of trying to cover similar ground , it goes outside the first film and makes its own stand .  but soon the movie gets confused and sidetracked by its own story , that is never resolved and ends with a very anticlimaxic epilogue .  in a way , this is a typical hollywood sequel .  more money has been spent and more people have worked on a project that was doomed to fail .  the horror and suspense of the original simply could not be repeated .  of course in these situations , quantity is more important than quality and profit is more important than the artistical values .  from its opening scenes when the camera gracefully panes over the bloody-red forest , with carter burwell's ( " being john malkovich " and " fargo " ) musical score in the background , you realize that with the exception of its title , this film has absolutely nothing to do with " the blair witch project " .   " blair witch . . "  was filmed by handheld videocameras and nfeatured acting that was mostly based on improvisation .  in the sequel the technical aspect of the film is close to perfection , creating a completely different atmosphere .  with its graceful cinematography , production design and flashy editing , the film has a very polished look , which is impossible to associate with the first installment .  and though berlinger directs his film with an energy and pace that makes the adrenaline rush through the body a couple of times , he has obviously misunderstood the nature of his predecessor .  the key is simplicity .   " blair witch project " had a story which was incredibly simple .  that allowed the audience to fill the gaps with our own imagination .  the film was practically an empty screen , on which we projected our most frightening nightmares .  the effect was incredibly powerful , lasting and entir e everyone , but in a different way .   " book of shadows " feels incredibly controlled and restrict .  here , very little is left to our imagination and the story is so complex and " clever " that the screenwriters are the first to get lost in it .  there is is no book of shadows and no conclusion that we can be satisfied with .  this is simply a less artistic film that doesn't have the talent and originality of its predecessor .  it resorts to fancy cinematography and special effects to create the right effect and doesn't always succeed .  but most importantly : it stands on its own ground and has almost no connection with the first movie , which doesn't allow it to destroy the original .  in the end , i can't call it a bad effort .  it's less artistic , not so scary and less original , but certainly not bad .  it's simply different .  in fact , if you haven't seen " the blair witch project " , you might like this film for what it is -- a cross between " the blair witch project " and the " scream " -films .  the only element that remains constant and similar between the two films is the solid acting ( jeffrey donovan and tristine skyler should be mentioned ) and incredible sense of surrealism .  but it's a common knowledge and experience that , with a few exceptions , every movie sequel is worse than the original and some are even not worth making .  to me the story of " the blair witch project " seemed completed , but there are obviously no limits to commercial success that " the book of shadows " is certainly assured .  and it's already time to look forward to " blair witch 3 " .  
neg	nothing more or less than an outright bodice-ripper -- it should have ditched the artsy pretensions and revelled in the entertaining shallows . 
neg	comes off like a bad imitation of the bard . 
neg	i am writing this review having watched it several months ago .... the trailer looked promising enough for me to buy this lame excuse for a movie . it is a complete joke .... and literally a spit in the face of real classics of the early generation of horror like texas chainsaw massacre ( 1974 ) which they even had the gall to compare itself to on the back of the cover art . the producer who played brandon should go flip burgers and serve up greasy hamburgers .... hell he might not even be good at that either ! the lighting was bad bad bad and a big annoyance through out the film you could n't even see the actor 's faces sometimes . i do n't even remember the rest of the cast members which is sad really , bad they never do anything to impress you to make them memorable . that 's all the time i will waste on this review please stay as far away as you can from this pile of junk even if you get it for 25 cents do n't do it buy s piece of gum at least it would keep you entertained ! if you want good quality low budget fun , far better than this ... then check out a jeff hayes film .... because it takes talent to make it in horror and the kid has it ! i gave this 1 star just for the cover art .... thats the only thing worth liking abut this so called " film " -rick blalock
neg	mendes still doesn't quite know how to fill a frame . like the hanks character , he's a slow study : the action is stilted and the tabloid energy embalmed . 
neg	in a far away galaxy is a planet called ceta . it 's native people worship cats . but the dog people wage war upon these feline loving people and they have no choice but to go to earth and grind people up for food . this is one of the stupidest f#@k!ng ideas for a movie i 've seen . leave it to ted mikels to make a movie more incompetent than the already low standard he set in previous films . it 's like he enjoying playing in a celluloid game of limbo . how low can he go ? the only losers in the scenario are us the viewer . mr. mikels and his silly little handlebar mustache actually has people who still buy this crap . my grade : f   dvd extras : commentary by ted mikels ; the story behind the making of ( 9 and a half minutes ) ; 17 minutes , 15 seconds of behind the scenes footage ; ted mikels filmography ; and trailers for " the worm eaters " " girl in gold boots " , " the doll squad " , " ten violent women " ( featuring nudity ) , " blood orgy of the she devils " , & " the corpse grinders "
pos	you can watch , giggle and get an adrenaline boost without feeling like you've completely lowered your entertainment standards . 
neg	the final film for ernst lubitsch , completed by otto preminger after lubitsch 's untimely death during production , is a juggling act of sophistication and silliness , romance and music , fantasy and costume dramatics . in a 19th century castle in southeastern europe , a countess falls for her sworn enemy , the leader of the hungarian revolt ; she 's aided by her ancestor , whose painted image magically comes to life . betty grable , in a long blonde wig adorned with flowers , has never been more beautiful , and her songs are very pleasant . unfortunately , this script ( by samson raphaelson , taken from an operetta by rudolf schanzer and e. welisch ) is awash with different ideas that fail to mesh -- or entertain . the results are good - looking , but unabsorbing . * 1/2 from * * * *
pos	a highly personal look at the effects of living a dysfunctionally privileged lifestyle , and by the end , we only wish we could have spent more time in its world . 
neg	for all its alleged youthful fire , xxx is no less subservient to bond's tired formula of guns , girls and gadgets while brandishing a new action hero . 
pos	the son of the bride's humour is born out of an engaging storyline , which also isn't embarrassed to make you reach for the tissues . this movie is to be cherished . 
neg	much like robin williams , death to smoochy has already reached its expiration date . 
pos	the asylum material is gripping , as are the scenes of jia with his family . 
neg	this film looks like it was produced in 1954 , shelved for 48 years , and repackaged for a 2002 audience . 
pos	three things i learned from " being john malkovich " : when getting on the elevator for your first day of work on the 7 1/2th floor of a building , always bring your crowbar ; don't stand in the way of your wife's actualization as a man ; and , whenever entering a portal into the mind of another human being , wear old clothes , because , hey , it's muddy in there .   " being john malkovich " is the most original film to come down the pike in a very long time .  wildly surrealistic , yet presented in a down-to-earth , funky style , this is the kind of movie that sticks in your head .  after savoring the sheer inventiveness of the storyline , you roll around the wealth of ideas contained within it .  from the ethics of relationships and politics of immortality to the very nature of identity itself , there's a lot to think about here .  just don't forget to have fun .  clearly , all parties involved in the making of the film certainly did , starting with writer charles kaufman .   " i wrote 'being john malkovich' without an outline , " he explains in the press notes , " blindly , with no sense of direction or purpose .  it's important to me that i don't have a map before i start .  this allows me to surprise myself , stay engaged , discover things , and , hopefully , allow the unconscious to surface . "  spike jonze ( mark wahlberg's na ? ve buddy in " three kings " ) takes it from there .  the white-hot director of the beastie boy's " sabotage , " an award-winning parody of '70s tv cop shows , as well as numerous other music videos and commercials , eschews typical mtv flash for his feature film debut .  jonze wisely realized that a storyline this unusual is most effectively presented in a low-key style .  his flat , matter-of-fact approach works perfectly .  and then there's the cast .  john cusack plays control freak craig schwartz , a street performer who periodically gets decked by parents objecting to his remarkably expressive , but decidedly erotic puppet shows .  over the years , his marriage to obsessive pet store employee lotte ( cameron diaz ) has devolved .  once passionate lovers , the two are now little more than courteous roommates .  financially strapped , craig takes a job as an entry-level file clerk at lestercorp , located on the 7 1/2th floor of a manhattan building .  navigating around dr . lester ( orson bean ) , his 105 year-old boss and floris ( mary kay place ) , lester's dotty secretary , craig tries to settle into his new position , but two things keep him distracted .  first , there's the beautiful and imperious maxine ( catherine keener ) , who delights in tormenting craig over his obvious lust for her .  and then there's the hole behind the file cabinet , which turns out to be a portal into the mind of actor john malkovich .  craig learns that anyone who enters the portal gets whooshed into the subconscious of malkovich , where they can experience life from his point of view ( with enough concentration , you can even influence his actions ) .  after 15 minutes , the visitor gets ejected and unceremoniously dumped in a ditch on the side of the new jersey turnpike .  then things get a little weird .  by the way , if you're concerned that i gave away too much of the plot , rest assured - - i barely scratched the surface .  one of the most satisfying aspects of the fable is that kaufman is not content to simply milk laughs from his bizarre set-up .  instead , he crawls into the dark premise as completely as craig crawls into malkovich , rummaging around and toying with the various philosophical implications of compromising another person's identity .  he also examines the consequences of the malko-visits to craig , lotte , maxine and , of course , john malkovich himself .  the performances are superb .  malkovich ( best known to mainstream audiences for his work in " dangerous liaisons , " " in the line of fire , " and as head psychopath in the guilty-pleasure " con air " ) tweaks his own image in a dandy self-deprecating turn .  far from his effete , vaguely reptilian persona , this malkovich is just another schlub , drinking with his pals and trying to get laid ( incidentally , charlie sheen also plays himself in a hilarious parody of his well-earned bad boy reputation ) .  as always , john cusack nails his part , handily pulling viewers along even as craig's actions become unconscionable .  the big surprises come from catherine keener and cameron diaz , both playing against type .  kenner , usually cast in icy subordinate roles , is terrific as a highly intelligent , extremely manipulative femme fatale .  cameron diaz , barely recognizable under a mess of brown , curly hair , sheds her perpetually sunny smile and draws big laughs as a woman thrown into extreme sexual confusion after taking a ride in malkovich .   " being john malkovich " stumbles towards the end , as jonze and kaufman try too hard to resolve the various subplots .  additional characters and increasingly complex explanations lead to a cluttered finale .  regardless , this contemporary " alice in wonderland " is a real treat .  i enjoyed watching " being john malkovich , " but only later , after reflecting on the film , did its resonance fully hit me .  at one point , craig says , " do you know what a metaphysical can of worms this portal is ? "  truer words were never spoken .  
neg	the story is predictable , the jokes are typical sandler fare , and the romance with ryder is puzzling . 
neg	i suspect this is the kind of production that would have been funnier if the director had released the outtakes theatrically and used the film as a bonus feature on the dvd . 
pos	call this the full monty on ice , the underdog sports team formula redux . 
pos	k-19 will not go down in the annals of cinema as one of the great submarine stories , but it is an engaging and exciting narrative of man confronting the demons of his own fear and paranoia . 
neg	this may be the first cartoon ever to look as if it were being shown on the projection television screen of a sports bar . 
neg	put it somewhere between sling blade and south of heaven , west of hell in the pantheon of billy bob's body of work . 
pos	payne constructs a hilarious ode to middle america and middle age with this unlikely odyssey , featuring a pathetic , endearing hero who is all too human . 
neg	this is a film that i was inclined to like at the outset : the two main characters had been involved with the fine television drama st .  elsewhere for several years , and i had understood that the director/screenwriter had written for the show on occasion also .  i am sorry to report that the results were not up to my expectations , nor were they satisfactory .  if i had to list a reason why . . . .  but that would be getting ahead of myself ; besides , it's not immediately clear , as there are so many problems with the film .  adam arkin plays a grade-school teacher who is sardonic , cynical , and somewhat abrasive , but a good teacher .  he spends his lunches playing basketball by himself on a nearby court .  one day , he meets a drifter ( david morse , who plays jack morrison on st .  elsewhere ) in the park , and inveigles him in a game of one-on-one basketball .  morse turns out to be good , and a friendship slowly develops between the two , as their respective professions progress on the screen--arkin's teaching , and morse's selling of paper flowers to passing motorists .  so far , my major complaint would be the lack of dialogue , and the constant intrusion of the musical soundtrack .  good music to be sure , but it doesn't replace the dialogue for setting the mood or telling the story--it makes the film somewhat minimalistic , a technique i rarely admire .  suddenly their friendship is interrupted by morse's introduction to a fellow teacher of arkin's , a woman arkin has long admired from afar , but it too reticent to approach .  it appears that she begins to admire morse ( who enjoys here attentions , but isn't sure what to do about it--she doesn't realize that he is a drifter , and knows nothing about his past ) , and this causes friction between arkin and almost everyone else .  until then , i had only a vague dissatisfaction with the film .  the conclusion is where it begins to evolve into a full-fledged failure .  the woman , at least to me , appeared to be fairly shallow ; i didn't realize how shallow until her final scene with arkin , where she reveals that she has been trying to make arkin jealous by her attentions to morse .  somehow , this is made to appear as if it is arkin's fault , and it is left with him feeling somehow victorious that he's gotten such a find of girlfriend .  frankly , dropping her on the spot would have seemed the most civilized action arkin could make ; punching her in the mouth not the least .  after this , the childish confrontation between morse and arkin at the end seems almost natural .  if i had to summarize a major gripe , it's that this is a story spread too thin , that creates semi-likable characters at the outset , and then suddenly jerks them into being 16-year-olds at the last moment .  it might be true-to-life with some people ; but that doesn't mean * i * have to like it .  i don't .   .  avoid .  
neg	obvious
neg	it's pretentious in a way that verges on the amateurish . 
pos	like dickens with his passages , mcgrath crafts quite moving scenes throughout his resolutely dramatic variation on the novel . 
neg	hollywood has taken quite a nosedive from alfred hitchcock's imaginative flight to shyamalan's self-important summer fluff . 
neg	made me feel uneasy , even queasy , because [solondz's] cool compassion is on the border of bemused contempt . 
neg	[a] shapeless blob of desperate entertainment . 
pos	_in brief : _ this film needs no introduction .  if you haven't heard of it , then you must have been up in space on a sabbatical , and if you haven't seen it -- well , i suspect you're in a small minority !  first thing's first ? is it all it's hyped up to be ?  well , yes ? and no .  it's a good film , and there's a lot to like about it , but it's not without its problems .  when i saw the first trailer for " titanic " , it was when i went to see " bean " last summer , i think , my intial reaction was -- ain't that downright sick to make a disaster movie out of such a dreadful , real-life tragedy ? !  i mean , what's happened to hollywood's script-writers , have they run entirely out of new ideas ?  gads , whatever next , i asked myself , how about an action film based on hiroshima starring jean claude van damme ?  i was not entirely filled with anticipation , but then i wasn't alone in that respect .  it's when it came out in the cinema , to rave reviews ( well , mostly ) and anyone who'd been to see it seemed disturbingly obsessed by it that i started to take notice !  i didn't see the film until several months after its release ( by which time my sister had seen it about four times ! ) ,  so i went with a slightly more open mind , but i still didn't think i'd enjoy it much .  did i ? yes and no .  mainly yes , i'm happy to say .  the first hour or so was beautifully done , not so much because of the scripting ( i'll talk about that later ? ) but because the re-created ship and sets were stunning to look at , as was cameron's directing , and the performances of the principal cast were so strong that the " human " aspect of the story , the romance between rose ( kate winslet ) and jack ( leonardo dicaprio ) , was enchanting .  the film is told via flashback , with gloria stuart playing the elderly rose in the modern day ( you knew that , a' course !   : - ) ) .  well , it's an often effective device to use in storytelling -- though sometimes it can fall flat .  does it work here ?  in script form it doesn't add all that much to the story .  what does add a lot to the story is gloria stuart , whose stunning performance is the strongest , most moving of the film .  her presence brings a much deeper level of passion , and depth to the story , and though her appearances are relatively brief , the film would have suffered without her .  also impressive are dicaprio and winslet , who wholly succeed in rising above the often poor dialogue , and the bond they form is both heartfelt and moving .  it's an old story , you know -- forbidden love ala romeo and juliet -- but it works , and jack's " rescuing " rose ( in both literal and figurative senses ) and teaching her to live life for what counts was pointed and touching .  in fact , i enjoyed the first half of the film a lot , largely because winslet and dicaprio bring such and charm , energy to the romance .  it's engaging , touching and very enjoyable .  there's more than a tinge of poignancy to it as well , simply because you know it's not going to be a happy ending .  which leads us to the second half of the film .  we all knew it was coming .  i'm sure director cameron was looking forward with eager anticipation to it , because as he's stated in interviews , the real thrust of the story ( for him ) was the sinking , and the jack/rose romance was a merely a manipulative plot device to get you emotionally into the film .  i think that understates the importance of the romance , as i found it far more enjoyable than an hour of watching people die .  the iceberg arrives , and the captain announces that titanic will have sunk in about an hour .  and it is an hour .  my goodness , we don't miss a second of that hour ?  gratuitous ? well , perhaps not by today's standards , i'm sure there's been far worse produced under the banner of " entertainment " in other films .  but i certainly wasn't prepared for how shocking and graphic the last hour or so would be .  not that i'd expect the word " understatement " to be part of cameron's vocabulary ( he who brought us such , umm , vivid films as " terminator 2 " and " aliens " ) .  is it overdone ?  i thought so .  understatement can sometimes work wonders in conveying tragedy .  no , no one expected a happy ending , but i didn't quite expect the horrendously shocking and powerful scenes we were bombarded throughout the film's second half .  still , whether it was overdone and heavy-handed or not , if it was the shock-factor cameron was after it worked , because i was shocked and moved , in fact i spent most of the last hour in tears !  you really couldn't help but get emotionally involved , whether it was wishing someone would knock that dreadfully psychotic fiance of rose's overboard or desperately hoping that rose would rescue jack , or that jack would rescue rose , or that they would both survive .  perhaps the most harrowing scene was when the ship has sunk , and those that sunk along with the ship freeze to death on the water surface .  the bit where rose lets go of jack's hand , while promising she'll never let go in her heart was particularly heart-wrenching , and the sight of rescue boats sailing amid the ocean of corpses was a pretty powerful image , to put no fine a point on it .  i loved the ending , however , which was both moving and slightly uplifting following the horror of the past hour and a half .  so , we've established that the film is powerful and moving , if the last hour was rather excessive .  haven't mentioned the script .  plot-wise it's ok , though the jack/rose relationship was beautifully developed , but i've a feeling that's to the actors credit if anything .  as for the dialogue ? well , titanic is set in 1912 .  it's a period drama .  but i saw very little indication of period in so far as the dialogue is concerned .  did they really use phrases like " goddamn it ! "  back in the turn of the century ?  i doubt it .  would someone talk like this : " do ya love the guy or what ? " .  i doubt it .  is such dialogue as " i saw the iceberg , and i see it in your eyes now " not just a bit ? clumsy ?  yes it is .  a little more attention to dialogue would not have gone astray , and cameron himself is to blame ( he wrote the script ) .  stick with directing , dude .  but its more than redeemed by the acting , with dicaprio and winslet on fine form , ably supported by a strong cast .  star of the show was gloria stuart , though -- why didn't she win that oscar ? !  after all , they were throwing oscars at " titanic " left , right and centre , but gloria was perhaps the most deserving nominee .  directing-wise cameron does a spectacular job .  like i said , his vision was a bit excessive , but at least he directed it well .  i haven't even mentioned james horner's beautiful score .  utterly heavenly , though when your dad and sister play the soundtrack a lot you do start to get a bit bored with it !   ; - )  i've finished my rant , which lasted a lot longer than i thought it would !  just leaves a couple of questions ; was it worth all those oscars ?  hell , don't talk to me about oscars .  bloomin' farce .  it was deserving in a number of departments , though .  last question ; is it , as some suggest , one of the best films of all-time ?  nope , i don't think so .  it's certainly one of the most powerful and memorable films i've ever seen , but i don't think it quite ranks as one of my all-time favourites .  and as for the fact they're reportedly making a " titanic 2 " ? well i guess that's typical hollywood for you !  
pos	binoche and magimel are perfect in these roles . 
pos	a penetrating , potent exploration of sanctimony , self-awareness , self-hatred and self-determination . 
pos	o Último suspeito ganha força ao também funcionar em uma esfera adicional : a do drama familiar . 
pos	george lucas returns as a visionary with a tale full of nuance and character dimension . 
pos	good , solid storytelling . 
pos	poetic , heartbreaking . 
pos	what the film lacks in general focus it makes up for in compassion , as corcuera manages to find the seeds of hope in the form of collective action . 
neg	there are now two signs that m . night shyamalan's debut feature sucked up all he has to give to the mystic genres of cinema : unbreakable and signs . 
neg	the rest of the plot is impossible to explain without blowing whatever tension there is , although it's more comedy than suspense de palma creates . 
pos	texan director george ratliff had unlimited access to families and church meetings , and he delivers fascinating psychological fare . 
neg	if this is supposed to be the black experience , let me out at either the front or back door . a mama 's boy one day sees 2 young hoods walk by and from then on it 's all down hill for him . angela bassett , the one shining grace in this film , plays his over protective , religious mother . despite her anger at how his life has turned , by the middle of the picture , she really decides to accept this . she allows his friends to come in and suddenly it 's all right to use the profanity as long as it 's not in front of the children . this is a sad state of affairs regarding gangster rap . you knew where this film was heading . i literally laughed out loud when at the end , when bassett is accompanying her son 's body for burial , she states that while his life had been cut short at age 24 , he had become a man . what man ? he had been a convicted criminal , wrote the most atrocious rap music with constant vulgarity , and scorned society . that scene in the classroom where he tells a teacher that as a sanitation worker , he will earn more than the teacher is a perfect example of what goes on in our schools . the complete and utter lack of respect for the teacher . the east coast , west coast gang rap rivalry is never fully explained . all we see are guns blazing . a terrible picture doing nothing to prevent gang violence . what horrible role models are these rap singers and their foul music . the african american community should take umbrage at their very being . who was this classless fat slob who portrayed biggie ? he made rerun from the old television show look thin by comparison . i know it was the streets of bedford stuyvesant that changed this chubby little boy into the vulgar monster that he was . what a sorry state of affairs when this is called motion picture entertainment .
pos	in life , we first organize stones ( piedras in spanish ) such as a career , family , friendship , and love . in this way , we shall find space between these to fit smaller stones , our small necessities . if you act in an inverse way , you will not have enough room for larger stones . the five protagonists in this film are women who have not been able to organize the large " stones " in their lives . ramon salazar , a spanish motion picture director defines his first feature stones in this way . the film tells the parallel , conflicting trajectory of five women : anita ( monica cervera , 1975- ) , isabel ( angela molina , 1955- ) , adela ( antonia san juan , 1961- ) , leire ( najwa nimri , 1972- ) , and maricarmen ( vicky pena , 1954-).all are endeavoring to remove the stones that insistently appear in their path or , worst , that are in their shoes . they are five cinderellas in search of prince charming and a new chance in life . the best story of these five cinderellas is that of anita ( monica cervera ) who also stars in " 20 centimeters , " " busco , " " crimen ferpecto , " " entre vivir y sonar , " " hongos , " and " octavia . " sarge booker of tujunga , california
pos	an unforgettable look at morality , family , and social expectation through the prism of that omnibus tradition called marriage . 
neg	responsável direto pelo fracasso 'artístico' de doce lar , o roteirista c . jay cox não consegue sequer aproveitar os pouquíssimos momentos em que escapa da mediocridade . 
pos	witty , contemplative , and sublimely beautiful . 
pos	my brother and i have pokemon 4ever on dvd . we watched it like a couple of times and it was the best . too bad it a new pokemon did n't talk this time . i 'll get used to it . the iron masked marauder was pretty mean when he captured celebi with his dark ball . good thing ash and sam managed to snap him out of his control . there was only one song in the ending credits called cele - b - r - a - t - e performed by russell velazquez . pokemon 4ever became a success since the three previous films and people will always love that film .
pos	an intriguing cinematic omnibus and round-robin that occasionally is more interesting in concept than in execution . 
neg	toward the bottom of the '80s action movie barrel lies action jackson , the only movie in hollywood history to show sharon stone and vanity topless within a span of ten minutes .  this carl " apollo creed " weathers vehicle features the traditional cop vs . evil establishment crook , and relies on all the '80s trappings , from the token heroin addict who needs a fix to the shouting superior officer .  somewhere in between come the explosions and boobs , although there is a curious lack of exploding boobs .  weathers is action jackson , a detroit cop known for all sorts of crazy vigilante techniques .  speaking of one past criminal apprehension , jackson's superior yells , " you tore his arm off ! "  jackson replies , " he had a spare . "  jackson has been busted down to a desk job because of past problems with auto manufacturer dellaplane ( craig t . nelson ) and now has to act as department liaison to a dinner honoring nelson .  after hearing what jackson thinks of him , stone says , " i take it you're not one of dellaplane's friends . "   " not unless they changed the definition , " jackson glowers .  and of course it turns out stone is mrs . dellaplane .  faux pas , jackson . . .  not everything is happy in motown ; people are being killed and dellaplane has evil plans for the awa .  it's all up to jackson to stop it , and his only lead lies in vanity ( not his own ) .  wherever she left off with prince in terms of exchanging sexual favors for career advancement she picks up in action jackson .  she plays the heroin addict and chanteuse in dellaplane's nightclub .  after singing one particularly sultry number for him , she saunters over and complains , " i expected a standing ovation . "  he responds , " you're getting one , " and it's damn clever because he's sitting down at the time .  prince wouldn't even let out an innuendo that lame and he's the king of the horndogs . . .  or at least the prince .  it's a testament to the '80s that sharon stone is killed off within the first 30 minutes but vanity survives the whole movie .  action jackson is another variation on the " unlikely partners " buddy action flick , with jackson lugging junkie vanity around .  this leads to some of the worst paired acting of the me decade , and with the dialogue they're given , there's not much room for improvement .  my favorite is when vanity , feeling the effects of drug withdrawal , says , " i feel like my teeth are hollow , my gums are made of dry rubber and someone's trying to start a bonfire in the back of my bloody head . "  jackson's response is , " i think i felt that way once .  they called it love . "  you'll understand when i say watch this at your own risk .  serving the world for nearly 1/25th of a century !  
neg	neither funny nor suspenseful nor particularly well-drawn . 
pos	douglas mcgrath's nicholas nickleby does dickens as it should be done cinematically . 
pos	as an entertainment , the movie keeps you diverted and best of all , it lightens your wallet without leaving a sting . 
pos	this romantic thriller is steeped in the atmosphere of wartime england , and ably captures the speech patterns , moral codes and ideals of the 1940s . 
neg	if kaufman kept cameron diaz a prisoner in a cage with her ape , in his latest , he'd have them mate . 
pos	watching beanie and his gang put together his slasher video from spare parts and borrowed materials is as much fun as it must have been for them to make it . 
pos	i have no way of knowing exactly how much is exaggeration , but i've got a creepy feeling that the film is closer to the mark than i want to believe . 
pos	a tasty appetizer that leaves you wanting more . 
neg	the whole damn thing is ripe for the jerry springer crowd . it's all pretty cynical and condescending , too . 
neg	with mcconaughey in an entirely irony-free zone and bale reduced mainly to batting his sensitive eyelids , there's not enough intelligence , wit or innovation on the screen to attract and sustain an older crowd . 
neg	the story really has no place to go since simone is not realshe can't provide any conflict . 
pos	 " brown sugar " admirably aspires to be more than another " best man " clone by weaving a theme throughout this funny film . 
neg	told in scattered fashion , the movie only intermittently lives up to the stories and faces and music of the men who are its subject . 
pos	a compassionate , moving portrait of an american ( and an america ) always reaching for something just outside his grasp . 
pos	some body will take you places you haven't been , and also places you have . 
pos	the re-release of ron howard's apollo 13 in the imax format proves absolutely that really , really , really good things can come in enormous packages . 
neg	the best thing about , " lake placid " is that it's only 80 minutes long and when it's over you're glad that you didn't waste more than an hour and a half of your time .  it's nothing more than a bad rip-off of , " jaws " ( and i think that's being kind . )  it was written by david e . kelly ( " ally mcbeal " ) as a horror-comedy but fails at both , miserably .  i was never scared and i think that i only laughed once .  the crocodile even fails in comparison to the snake in , " anaconda . "  the plot begins when a man is eaten in half by the giant crocodile in black lake in maine .  that brings the local sheriff ( brendan gleeson ) and a fish-and-game warden ( bill pulman ) to investigate .  also , a paleontologist ( bridget fonda ) from new york is sent to look at a tooth and an eccentric millionaire/crocodile lover ( oliver platt ) flies in because he wants to swim beside the beast .  soon there is tension between everybody because half the people want to kill the croc and the other half want to save it .  there's also an eccentric old lady ( betty white ) who lives by the lake and has a few secrets .  as i mentioned before kelley and director steve minor ( h20 ) don't go for a serious approach towards the material but they also don't have anything sly or satirical or witty to say either .  the betty white character is completely unfunny and none of the other characters are really that interesting , they're all basically idiots .  if they had any brains the croc wouldn't have been that much of a challenge to catch and they wouldn't have put themselves in half of the situations that they did .  but then again , if they were smart there wouldn't be a movie .  basically , " lake placid " is best undiscovered .  
pos	the national gallery of art showed the long - thought lost original uncut version of this film on july 10 , 2005 . it restores vital scenes cut by censors upon its release . the character of the cobbler , a moral goody - goody individual in the original censored release of 1933 is here presented as a follower of the philosopher nietsze and urges her to use men to claw her way to the top . also , the corny ending of the original which i assume is in current vhs versions is eliminated and the ending is restored to its original form . a wonderful film of seduction and power . hopefully , there will a reissue of this film on dvd for all to appreciate its great qualities . look for it .
neg	an unpredictable blend of gal-pal smart talk , romantic comedy and dark tragedy that bites off considerably more than writer/director john mckay can swallow . 
neg	just like hearst's enormous yacht , it's slow and unwieldy and takes a long time to reach its destination . 
neg	paxton's uneven directorial debut fails to unlock the full potential of what is in many ways a fresh and dramatically substantial spin on the genre . 
pos	an extraordinary swedish film about the soul adventure of marriage -- the kind of intimate and character-driven film that bille august does best . 
neg	deserves recognition for : achieving the near-impossible task of making a grander monument to self-love than steven seagal's on deadly ground .  capsule review : a question : after the floating baby ruth that was waterworld , what in the @$&% were the hollywood execs who gave kevin costner the money to make another post-apocalyptic movie thinking ?  in this 3 hour advertisement for his new hair weave , costner plays a nameless drifter who dons a long dead postal employee's uniform and gradually turns a nuked-out usa into an idealized hippy-dippy society .   ( judging by the costuming at the end of the movie , the main accomplishment of this brave new world is in re-inventing polyester . )  when he's not pointing the camera directly at himself , director costner does have a nice visual sense , and it is undeniably fascinating to see such an unabashedly jingoistic film in the trust-no-one 90's ; but by the time the second hour rolled around , i was reduced to sitting on my hands to keep from clawing out my own eyes .  mark this one " return to sender " .  
neg	the marvelous british actor derek jacobi stars in writer and director john maybury's love is the devil about the popular modern artist francis bacon .  as always , jacobi's acting is impeccable , but the movie tries hard and succeeds at being unentertaining and opaque .  the movie convincingly argues that francis , played by jacobi , was a completely despicable and vain individual , but it never provides any insight into his work or any motivation for his attitude .  when interviewed by a fawning talk show host , francis calls his style " chance brushstrokes . "  starting with a burglary of francis's flat , the film uses loud sound effects that sound like they were lifted from a cheap horror movie .  the camera shots are heavy on the avant-garde angles -- lots of wide-angle close-ups and distorted shots filmed through colored-glass reflections .  the director is much more interested in filmmaking style than in the substance of the story with the result being a sterile examination of a lonely and vain man .  daniel craig , in a lifeless performance , plays the burglar and boxer , george dyer .  when francis lays eyes on him after the break-in , francis promises not to call the police if he'll stay for sex .  he stays for the entire movie but never respects the man with whom he shares a bed .  he thinks that francis's paintings have " no bloody use , " and the movie presents no counterargument .  writer maybury barely outlines francis's character , and george and the rest of the supporting cast remain a complete enigma .  we learn little of george other than francis's reason for liking him -- george's " amorality and innocence . "  francis's love of sadomasochism is shown early and often .   " boxing is such a marvelous aperitif for sex , " he reflects to george on the way to watch a boxing match .  as the fighter's head is sliced open with a heavy blow , the camera cuts to a gleeful francis whose own head is soaked by the flying blood .  francis appears to be in complete ecstasy .  another of francis's favorite activities is viewing old movies of atrocities .  as the carnage mounts , we witness an orgasmically happy francis in the audience .  in a film that tries obsessively to shock , one dream sequence portrays a family in a car accident .  francis's mind slowly examines every bloody limb of the mother , the father , and the boy .  sometimes the script throws us tidbits of francis's wisdom which illuminate little while merely sounding insightful .   ( " i'm optimistic by nature .  i'm optimistic about nothing . "   " loneliness is my only true companion . " )  we learn more details about francis's makeup techniques than about the man himself .  he prefers shoe polish for his hair and sink cleaning powder for his teeth .  full of metaphorical interpretations , the film's best scene occurs late one night when george has to get up to go to the bathroom .  mistaking francis's picture of a toilet for the genuine article , he urinates on it and then crawls back into bed contentedly .  like a parody of a bad art house movie , love is the devil has horrid characters filmed bizarrely and confusingly by a director who is much more interested in technique than storytelling .  by the end , the audience hasn't learned any more than it could have in a three-minute sketch .  love is the devil runs 1 : 30 .  the film is not rated but should be considered nc-17 for violence , profanity , graphic sex , nudity and sadomasochism and is unacceptable for most teenagers .  
pos	craig bartlett and director tuck tucker should be commended for illustrating the merits of fighting hard for something that really matters . 
pos	despite its old-hat set-up and predictable plot , empire still has enough moments to keep it entertaining . 
neg	when you find yourself rooting for the monsters in a horror movie , you know the picture is in trouble . 
neg	it's hard to believe that a relationship like holly and marina's could survive the hothouse emotions of teendom , and its longevity gets more inexplicable as the characterizations turn more crassly reductive . 
pos	shattering , devastating documentary on two maladjusted teens in a downward narcotized spiral . extraordinary debut from josh koury . 
pos	splendidly illustrates the ability of the human spirit to overcome adversity . 
pos	a quiet , disquieting triumph . 
neg	oh man . if you want to give your internal crow t. robot a real workout , this is the movie to pop into the ol' vcr . the potential for cut - up lines in this film is just endless . ( minor spoilers ahead . hey , do you really care if a film of this quality is " spoiled ? " ) traci is a girl with a problem . psychology has developed names for it when a child develops a sexual crush on the opposite - sex parent . but this girl seems to have one for her same - sex one , and i do n't think there 's a term for that . it might be because her mother dana is played by rosanna arquette , whose cute overbite , neo - flowerchild sexuality and luscious figure makes me forgive her any number of bad movies or unsympathetic characters . here dana is not only clueless to her daughter 's conduct ; she seems to be competing for the gold medal in the olympic indulgent mother competition .   it 's possible that dana misses traci 's murderous streak because truth be told , traci seems to have the criminal skills of a hamster . it 's only because the script dictates so that she manages to pull off any kind of a body count . a particularly hilarious note in this movie is the character of carmen , a mexican maid who is described by dana as around so long she 's like one of the family although she dresses in what the director thought would say , " i just fell off the tomato truck from guadalajara . " carmen is so wise to traci 's scheming , she might also wear a sign saying , " hey , i 'm the next victim ! " sure enough , traci confronts carmen as carmen is making her way back from mass , and bops her with one of those slightly angled lug wrenches that car manufacturers put next to your spare as a bad joke . i rather suspect than in real life those things are as useless as a murder weapon as they are for changing a tire .   in another sequence , arquette wears a flimsy dress to a vineyard , under cloudy skies , talking to the owner . cut to her in another flimsy dress under sunny skies , talking to the owner 's brother . then cut to her wearing the first dress , in the first location , under cloudy skies - but it 's supposed to be later . you get the picture . we 're talking really bad directing . as for skin , do n't expect much , although traci does own a nice couple of bikinis .   for those looking for a trash wallow , 8 . for anybody else , 1/2 .
neg	about amy's cuteness , amy's career success ( she's a best-selling writer of self-help books who can't help herself ) , and amy's neuroses when it comes to men . 
neg	this is a children's film in the truest sense . it's packed with adventure and a worthwhile environmental message , so it's great for the kids . parents , on the other hand , will be ahead of the plot at all times , and there isn't enough clever innuendo to fil
pos	my thoughts were focused on the characters . that is a compliment to kuras and miller . if i had been thinking about the visual medium , they would have been doing something wrong . 
neg	i love sharks . and mutants . and explosions . theoretically , with those parameters in mind , hammerhead : shark frenzy should have been the best movie ever . it is not . the monster looks like a villain from power rangers , and has approximately the same range of rubbery movement . this might be okay if the makers were n't quite as proud of its design as they seem to be . that is to say , for a guy in a big rubber suit in an action / scifi / horror flick that could benefit from some mystery , the shark gets a lot of screen time . granted , it is usually shaky and erratic . i guess you 're supposed to assume that it 's so scary that even the camera guy freaks out . the camera goes to a person about to get eaten , the camera goes to the shark . the camera goes back to the person about to get eaten , only now they are screaming and armless . and so on . the costuming is bad , the acting is poor , and the special effects are sub - par , but the writing is by far the worst . things happen completely randomly so that more people can be eaten , or so something can explode . because let me tell you , the people who made this movie definitely went in with a more explosions = more better mindset . characters shoot cars and there is a massive explosion . they shoot helicopters , there is a massive explosion . barrels , rocks , trees , whatever , they all explode , so much so that the freaking shark even explodes at the end . speaking of which , i do n't care how crazy a person is , i find it hard to believe that anyone would think trying to make a giant half - person half - shark have sex with a woman in order to make freaky shark people babies is a good idea . that is , unless that person is the mad scientist in this movie . the bad thing is , the movie is so random ( and at times , boring ) that even its badness is not really enough to hold a person 's prolonged interest . it might be a good one to mst3 k with your friends , but past that , if you happen to catch this bad boy on , do yourself a favor and change the channel .
pos	 ( wendigo is ) why we go to the cinema : to be fed through the eye , the heart , the mind . 
pos	this british import follows the ( mis- ) adventures of a group of heroin crazed scottish youths .  there is marc renton ( who narrates ) , spud ( the dim-witted one ) sick boy ( the sean connery obsessive ) , and begbee ( the violence obsessive ) .  powered by a top rate , but not top name soundtrack ( iggy pop , sleeper , elastica , lou reed . . . ) the film follows renton who gets clean , gets back into heroin and gets clean again .  some of the wit in this movie is sharp and pulp fiction-esque , and some is just dumb & dumber gross ( the bed sheets ) and stupid ( the bb gun ) although the film starts out on a comic note , it takes a sharp term in the middle , and becomes almost depressing .  the film is based on an irving welsh novel bearing the same title .  i can honestly say that this is one of the best movies i have ever seen .  it is an obscure gem that has been over shadowed in the us by such movies as mission impossible and id4 .  the film is hard to follow with the heavy accents of the actors .  this is a very original film , as far as films go today .  it definetly deserves multiple viewings ( partly because of the slang and accents ) jeremy dennison mr . orange@centuryinter . net  
neg	the april 2002 instalment of the american war for independence , complete with loads of cgi and bushels of violence , but not a drop of human blood . 
neg	the general's daughter is a heartless , absurd film , a movie so hopelessly dedicated to its inane plot that it forgets entirely about its own characters .  director simon west treats issues like rape and sexual fetish with ham-handed obscenity , creating a film that banks almost entirely on exploitation and offensive pseudo-depth .  what's worse is that the movie is haphazardly glued together by two characters who are neither interesting nor sympathetic -- the ridiculous story requires them to do unbelievable things in the interest of reaching a dark conclusion in a sudden rain storm .  john travolta finds himself in the middle of the mess , playing warrant officer paul brenner ; brenner is assigned to find the murderer and rape of captain elizabeth campbell ( leslie stefanson ) , daughter of general joe campbell ( james cromwell ) .  brenner is teamed up with ex-spouse sarah sunderland ( madeline stowe ) , and they check out all the suspects on the base , including elizabeth's mentor , colonel moore ( james woods ) .  soon , it becomes apparent that elizabeth was into kinky sexual stuff , but the question comes down to why -- and , of course , who .  ebert's law of the economy of characters can be applied here ; one interesting thing i noted is that not only are all the characters suspects at some point ( including the two protagonists ) , but almost all of them end up directly intertwined with the story .  perhaps i should have issued a spoiler alert before mentioning that , but it's painfully obvious from the beginning that everyone in the film is hiding something .  on a story level , the general's daughter is ineptly constructed .  the film , adapted by christopher bertolini and william goldman from nelson demille's novel ( which was apparently based on a true story ) , plods along to its conclusion , filling in the blanks with stale , unrealistic dialogue and " shocking " plot developments .  having not read the novel , it's difficult to determine if these problems are the fault of the adapters or the original author , but i suppose they all are guilty to some degree .  scene after scene stumbles with pointless insincerity ; minutes after finding the dead young woman , brenner and sunderland engage in sarcastic dialogue , which includes endless strings of forced lines .   ( sunderland actually asks brenner , " why was she killed ? "  to which i would have answered , " if i knew , then the movie would already be over . " )  only after we've spent twenty minutes or so with these characters do we learn that they have a sordid history together ; this angle , though apparently present to develop their characters , is never explored .  not that it really matters , since the characters consistently do ludicrous things for no other reason than to drive the plot .  in one scene , sunderland is attacked by a man in a mask .  she sees one of his rings , and she and brenner find the man later that day based on the ring .  instead of questioning him like as they would a real suspect , they take him to brenner's houseboat , beat him up , and pour hot coffee in his lap .  this scene really pushed me over the edge , not because it's gratuitous and mean-spirited , but because it illustrates the film's complete disregard for the characters and the audience .  it was impossible for me to feel anything for these people beyond this scene , mostly because nothing they do comes as a surprise .  i realized that these constructs on screen aren't actually characters , but devices present only to serve the story .  this would have been bad enough without the west's need to hose his movie down in tasteless images of rape and sexual misconduct .  compelling films about sexual crimes don't spend a lot of time on rape flashbacks , and they certainly don't show as much skin and sweat as a typical pornographic picture .  these scenes are not the least bit powerful ; on the contrary , they're intended simply to provide the audience with the necessary resentment for the villain , whomever that may turn out to be .  in addition , the movie treats sexual fetishes -- and sadomasochism in particular -- as if it's a perversion of everything we know to be pure .  this standpoint is certainly allowed , but only in accompaniment with well-developed themes to back it up .  as it is , the film forgets that a lot of people have sexual fetishes , and that putting on a pair of handcuffs does not make a person insane .  perhaps the only positive elements in the general's daughter are a couple of the performances .  james woods has a few terrific scenes , and plays his role with sharp , witty subtlety .  i also liked james cromwell , mostly because he comes across as slightly sympathetic despite the obvious intent of west to make him villainous .  nonetheless , these performances are undermined entirely by the dreary , obligatory atmosphere and the senseless neglect of characterization .  the general's daughter is the worst kind of hollywood film -- it pretends to have a soul , to be of strict moral code , when in fact it has nothing more than a group of cardboard cut-outs force-feeding the audience a toxic landfill of plot contrivances and one-sided moral judgments .  
pos	cho's timing is priceless . 
pos	the happy bastard's quick movie review  me tarzan . . . you  happy viewer .  for a minute there , i thought i was going to be groaning over the release of disney's latest , another adaptation of a legend from the past .   ( remember the pathetic pocahontas ?  yikes ! )  but guess what- disney , a company that's been on a roll lately with animated films , strikes again with another wonderful tale that pleases the eyes as well as the inner kid in you .  the story is pretty basic- tarzan is left orphaned and a female gorilla who's lost her young adopts him into her group .  as he matures into a much older man , tarzan still wonders just why he's so much different from the clan , and then arrives a hunter , a professor , and the professor's lovely daughter , jane- who meets tarzan rather quickly after getting in trouble with a group of feisty babboons .  from there , tarzan faces tough choices- should he stay with the ones that he grew up with or go join his own kind in england ?  the voicework here is pretty top-level .  tony goldwyn is very convincing as the ape man ; minnie driver adds a delectable touch to the already-beautiful jane ; nigel hawthorne makes for a pretty nasty hunter voice ; rosie o' donnell keeps the laughs rolling as tarzan's best ape friend terk ; and wayne " newman " knight has his moments as a panicky elephant .  the movie is superb throughout , mixing a great script with incredible computer-assisted visuals .  when tarzan tree-surfs ( a twist that was added on top of the same ol' vine swinging- and a great one , i might add ) , the camera twists and turns , allowing the trees all around to come to life vividly .  i couldn't believe my eyes- disney has come a long way since starting in a ballroom for beauty and the beast .  and the music's not half bad , either .  fortunately , there's no ridiculous singing characters here , just a great set of songs by phil collins that perfectly fit the mood .  there's some great action sequences here as well , including a wonderfully done chase between tarzan , jane , and the aforementioned babboons .  but , of course , it's not all action- there's a message here as well that has to do with family .  this is easily one of disney's best animated films of the decade and it's one i can't wait to put in my home library . . . that  is , if my vcr still works in the year 2000 .  
neg	uzumaki's interesting social parallel and defiant aesthetic seems a prostituted muse . . . 
pos	nonchalantly freaky and uncommonly pleasurable , warm water may well be the year's best and most unpredictable comedy . 
pos	if the film has a problem , its shortness disappoints : you want the story to go on and on . 
neg	even with its $50-million us budget , pinocchio never quite achieves the feel of a fanciful motion picture . 
neg	this is the kind of movie where people who have never picked a lock do so easily after a few tries and become expert fighters after a few weeks . 
neg	earnest and tentative even when it aims to shock . 
neg	capsule : the running gag pair of characters from all of kevin smith's films gets their own movie .  the gags are sporadically funny .  it is more than occasionally funny for teens who are fond of scatological humor and anti-gay jokes .  the plot is weak and the leads are not a particularly funny comic team .  the little inside jokes and digs at other entertainment and particularly at kevin smith films are the best features of the film .  sadly for me they were just not funny enough to make the film worth watching .  this feels like the high school skit that that the principal would not let the kids do on talent night .   ( and it turns out he had very good reasons . )   , low 0 ( -4 to +4 )  a film needs a plot .  it needs characters for empathy value .  it needs a story and an emotional center .  if a film is just a chain of jokes it can only be so good and any entertainment value will succeed or fail based on how funny the jokes are .  kevin smith has now made two satisfying films , clerks and chasing amy .  with dogma he tried to make a philosophical religious comedy and mixed with a madcap romp .  peter cook and dudley moore did that very successfully with their bedazzled .  but getting the combination to work is very hard to do right and kevin smith's fecal monsters in dogma were not the way to do it .  his remaining two films , mallrats and his new jay and silent bob strike back are aimed squarely at a teenage audience .  jay and silent bob strike back is a compendium of gay jokes , penis jokes , flatulence jokes , film pastiches , and in-jokes .  how funny the jokes are will be a subjective call .  for me , the vast majority of the jokes were just not very funny .  there was not enough cleverness or variety .  it is funny at most once or twice to accuse someone of being gay .  penis jokes work only so many times .  showing up as minor characters in every kevin smith film jay and silent bob were a clever pair of human running gags .  they were sort of the modern equivalents of naunton wayne and basil radford , the comic duo who showed up satirizing the english middle class in several good british post-war films including dead of night , the lady vanishes , and passport to pimlico .  jay and silent bob were originally supposedly typical generation x stoners .  as the series wore on they had larger and larger parts .  in jay and silent bob strike back they are the leads .  jay and silent bob ( played by jason mewes and kevin smith ) are chased away from the front of the convenience store where they were dealing drugs in clerks .  this leaves them at loose ends .  they are not sure what would be worthwhile to do with their lives when they hear that a comic book with characters visually modeled on them will be adapted into a movie .  they decide to devote their lives to wrecking the movie or getting some of that big movie industry cash .  so it is off to hollywood to shake down the movie company and having adventures along the way .  the film is mostly about their adventures on the road and when they get to hollywood  the problem with this comedy team is that neither really pulls his weight to make the film funny .  silent bob , being silent , can only contribute to the comedy by reacting with that very expressive face of his .  this makes his piece of the comedy even less than a straight man like a dean martin or bud abbott would have .  jay has to be the comic .  he could carry the load for both if he were extremely inventive .  the problem is that he is not sufficiently funny .  he is too bland to be the comic half and his lines just do not show any comic flair .  so jay and silent bob are a long way from being a successful comic team .  their starring roles and the low humor make this a comedy for those young at mind and for people who can laugh at gags they have seen before--sometimes just minutes before .  like dogma before it , but definitely not like chasing amy , this film feels more like an amateurish skit than a real movie .  certainly neither the plot nor the characters are at all involving .  they are excuses for gags , many of which still fall flat .  it is dogma without any of the humorous theological content .  the film does not offer much to an adult audience .  i rate it 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low 0 on the -4 to +4 scale .  
pos	from both a great and a terrible story , mr . nelson has made a film that is an undeniably worthy and devastating experience . 
pos	the grandfather of italian horror the late mario bava has credits in nearly 100 films and tv movies produced in italy between 1939 and his death in the early 80's .  more practiced as a cinematographer than a director , bava nonetheless sat in the director's chair for beyond the door ii , the project which turned out to be his last full-length feature film .  alongside the appalling zombie schlock of hacks like lucio fulci , beyond the door ii is simply a revelation .  in his day bava was considered by most to be no great filmmaker , yet here he fashioned one of the finest italian horror movies of the 1970's .   ( note that the film has no connection with the 1975 exorcist-rip off behind the door , but for some unexplained reason was given this related title for release in the usa and australia . )  this story focuses on dora , a women set upon by a malevolent spirit that channels itself through her young son marco .  the film opens with dora , her son and second husband bruno returning to a house by the sea that was the scene of her first husband's suicide and her subsequent trauma 7 years earlier .  they hope to put the past behind them , but as small accidents start to befall dora - usually while bruno is away on business - she starts to suspect that marco ( played with uncanny ability by 8 year old david colin jr . ) is somehow involved in the strange goings on .  to reveal any more of the story would be unfair .  suffice to say that this artfully paced study of a woman suffering a nervous breakdown offers an intriguing plot , loads of atmosphere and solid acting , though the dialogue is somewhat weakened by the dubbing into english .  bava coaches a surprisingly good performance from the usually wooden daria nicolodi , wife of famed italian horror director dario argento .  her character is invested with sufficient depth to allow the audience real empathy with dora's troubled soul .  the music by italian ensemble libra is also effective , mixing odd-sounding 70's rock with classic gothic piano sequences .  and there is at least one moment - brilliantly engineered by bava - that is guaranteed to lift you ten feet out of your chair .  yet for italian horror , the bloodletting here is surprisingly minimal .  lamberto bava and francesco barbieri's script is more concerned with deeper , psychological terrors , with themes of guilt and suffering , with the notion that what we sow will shall - somewhere , somehow - eventually reap .  scholars of the genre take note : beyond the door ii is stylish , chilling , and essential .  
pos	preaches to two completely different choirs at the same time , which is a pretty amazing accomplishment . 
neg	the last 20 minutes are somewhat redeeming , but most of the movie is the same teenage american road-trip drek we've seen before - only this time you have to read the fart jokes
pos	robert benton has assembled a stellar , mature cast for his latest feature , twilight , a film noir mystery set amid the fading stars of hollywood .  paul newman stars as retired detective harry ross .  harry has spent the last couple of years doing odd jobs for jack and catherine ames ( gene hackman and susan sarandon ) , a pair of married actors who have fallen from the limelight .  when jack sends him on a routine delivery job , however , the old instincts kick in .  soon , harry is wading through a mystery where friendships and lives are on the line , and he no longer knows who to trust .  there are plenty of familiar faces throughout twilight , in addition to newman , hackman and sarandon .  james garner plays raymond hope , a former cop and one of harry's best friends .  stockard channing plays verna , harry's former partner , and possibly a former love interest .  reese witherspoon is mel , the distrustful daughter of the ames' , and liev schrieber is her scuzzy boyfriend .  giancarlo esposito appears as harry's bumbling detective protigi , and john spencer is a suspicious police captain .  with a cast like that , it's almost worth watching twilight just to stargaze .  luckily , there's more to the film than some sort of actor's recognition ceremony .  twilight has a solid film noir-ish plot .  it may not have as many twists and turns as some of the classics , but it has much more than a lot of what passes for film these days .  the major cast members all deliver strong performances , as can be expected of their caliber .  however , none of them have that little extra oomph which would make them memorable .  the supporting cast is enjoyable , if a little underdrawn .  stockard channing's character , in particular , is a cipher .  there's more to her character than the film takes the time to describe .  it's a minor , but irritating , flaw .  with a solid cast , and a good plot , there's a lot to recommend about twilight .  it's biggest flaw is actually its short running time .  at a slim 94 minutes , there's a lot of stuff that's packed into an awfully small package .  still , the chance to see newman , sarandon and hackman working together is worth a cramp or two .  
pos	by its modest , straight-ahead standards , undisputed scores a direct hit . 
neg	it drowns in sap . 
pos	scherfig's light-hearted profile of emotional desperation is achingly honest and delightfully cheeky . 
pos	the farrelly brothers' third film , after dumb and dumber ( 7 . 5/10 ) and kingpin ( 8/10 ) , brings together the real-life couple of cameron diaz and matt dillon , some nasty humour , a cute dog , and a mix of love , fate and romance .  plot : high-school nerd ted gets lucky when the cutest girl in his class asks him to the prom .  unfortunately for ted , he accidentally gets a part of his male anatomy ( ouch ! )  caught in his zipper , and misses the big night .  thirteen years later , ted still can't get mary out of his mind , and hires a private detective ( dillon ) to find her .  once found , it turns out that mary has more than one suitor , and that's when the real fun begins .  critique : likeable comedy with a few extremely funny scenes , some funny looking people , and a plot that won't ever put you to sleep .  having said that , i must admit that i did like the farrellys' two previous films more than this one , but that is saying a lot , since i really did love those earlier pics .  this one is also quite funny , but it didn't really blow me away like the others .  then again , maybe my expectations were too high .  then again , maybe i should shut up , and write a little more about the film , and less about my supposed subconscious reasons for liking/disliking the film .  continuing where their other pictures left off , the farrellys' create a cutesy world of people with strange and endearing qualities , and a simple plot by which to tie them all together .  this one also includes plenty of toilet humour , but also some borderline fun-making of the disabled and mentally-challenged .  i must admit that i really wasn't sure whether to laugh at some points or not .  not a good place to be .  having said that , the scenes that did tear through the audience , and yours truly , were extremely hilarious , and went on for several minutes after the punchline .  the laughter practically killed out the next scene for one of the best ones in the movie ( something to do with hair gel ) .  on the negative end , i did not like the musical interludes of jonathan richman that ran through the entire picture .  i found them quite useless , unfunny and distracting .  also , i found that a lot of the funnier scenes had already been shown in the film's trailer .  and of course , i never quite buy the fact that these beautiful , intelligent , single women still can't seem to find the " right guy " ( see kiss the girls ( 7/10 ) .  i did really like all of the actors in the film , especially ben stiller , who appears to be solidifying his mark as a great comical actor with this picture and one of my favourites from 1996 , flirting with disaster ( 8/10 ) .  i also liked matt dillon with his big teeth , and lee evans with his superb faux-sympathy british accent .  funny stuff .  also , make sure that you stay for the credits , because there is an entire montage of outtakes from the film that plays under a lip-synched version of " build me up buttercup " , which is really cool .  overall , a cute comedy with a decent premise , and a few particularly hilarious scenes .  little known facts : the farrellys big break came when they somehow got a copy of their script " dust to dust " into the hands of eddie murphy via ? murphy's neighbour .  they only found out about murphy's interest , when they saw eddie mention the script on the david letterman show one night .  matt dillon is a high school dropout .  in between acting gigs , dillon has branched out into the restaurant business .  close to home in his native new york , he co-owns both a bar called the whiskey and a swanky uptown eatery called the falls .  cameron diaz stands 5 " 9 , started working as a model at the early age of 16 , and loves cats .  ben stiller's father is jerry stiller .  he played george costanza's ( jason alexander ) father on tv's " seinfeld " .  peter farrelly has written a novel entitled " outside providence " which is currently being filmed starring alec baldwin .  rob moran , who plays the cop in this film , also played the millionaire bowler in kingpin , and the bartender in dumb and dumber .  he is old friends with the farrelly brothers from college , and is currently married to entertainment tonight anchor/correspondant julie moran .  harland williams , who plays the nutty hitchhiker in this film , also played a state trooper in the farrelly's earlier dumb and dumber , and was the star of the unfortunate rocket man .  
pos	good car chases , great fight scenes , and a distinctive blend of european , american and asian influences . 
neg	i didn't laugh at the ongoing efforts of cube , and his skinny buddy mike epps , to make like laurel and hardy 'n the hood . 
pos	for those who pride themselves on sophisticated , discerning taste , this might not seem like the proper cup of tea , however it is almost guaranteed that even the stuffiest cinema goers will laugh their * * * off for an hour-and-a-half . 
neg	i hated this crap , every friday as part of tgif it was on , and consistently sucked big time with stupidity each and every week . if you want to see something funny go watch " no on would tell " starring candice cameron and fred savage , it really is hilarious , shows exactly why no one ever goes on to a good film career after doing a terrible tv show . this show really makes me sick , i hate those kids , and bob saget needs to go jump off a bridge for ever making this crapfest . i 've seen funner stuff everywhere else but here . i ahet writing 10 lines ! watch ' full house ' to see the least humanity has to offer in the way of arts and entertainment .
pos	 . . . a guiltless film for nice evening out . 
neg	first-time director joão pedro rodrigues' unwillingness to define his hero's background or motivations becomes more and more frustrating as the film goes on . 
pos	we know the plot's a little crazy , but it held my interest from start to finish . 
pos	kids - of whatever age - do not want to know about their parents ' sex lives . and grown - up children are often seriously baffled and disconcerted by any evidence that aging parents possess an active libido . lastly , many moviegoers are very uncomfortable watching a dowdy , frumpy widow who would pass unnoticed almost anywhere discover her aching capacity and need for raw passion with a handsome man half her age . " the mother " is a provocative look at a scarcely filmed reality - a woman who is n't ready to stay home , watch " the telly , " and vegetate after her husband of nearly three decades , and a controlling , dominating chap at that , packs it in with a massive heart attack . may ( anne reid ) and her husband have two children , each dysfunctional in his or her own way . the male son lives with a beautiful wife who may well be driving him to the bankruptcy court with her extravagant commercial venture . paula ( cathryn bradshaw ) , is a teacher with aspirations of succeeding as a writer . she 's attractive , not pretty , and she seems to have a close relationship with mum - at first . back at her house after burying her husband , may determines to not stay there . rejecting typical widowhood with its legacy of boring days and no adventure , she goes to stay with paula who has a young son . paula 's boyfriend , darren ( daniel craig ) , is a ruggedly handsome contractor who seems to be taking an awfully long time to complete an addition to may 's son 's house . may is quite taken with hard - drinking , coke - sniffing darren whose treatment of paula ought to have alerted may that he was , for sure , a fellow of the royal academy of cads . what follows is a torrid affair between darren and the besotted and now bubblingly alive ( dare i say reborn ? ) widow . the love scenes are graphic but take second place to amateur artist may 's pen and ink sketches of their trysts which then play a role in the enfolding drama ( or debacle , take your pick ) . the theater in manhattan was packed for today 's early afternoon showing with well over half the audience in the range of may 's age . that some were shocked or disturbed to see her disporting herself with erotic abandon in the arms of a much younger man is an understatement .   this blindingly honest look at an older woman 's awakened passion after decades of dutifully obeying her husband 's desire that she stay at home and raise kids ( she also mentions he did n't like her to have friends - what a guy ) surfaces a number of issues . while may 's dalliance with darren does n't constitute incest , there are real psychological dimensions , and issues , with a mother bedding her daughter 's lover . and paula is n't made of the stoutest stuff to begin with . the affair , once disclosed , allows the peeling open of the mother - daughter relationship which , from paula 's viewpoint , left something to be desired . ms. bradshaw is excellent in the role of a daughter who wants her mother 's support as well as her love - she has n't been dealt a terrible hand by life but it is n't a bed of roses either . may is strong in her resolve to both acknowledge her sexuality and expect , indeed demand , a future of happiness . but she is also inescapably vulnerable . she 's fishing in uncharted emotional waters . who controls her relationship with darren and why are difficult issues for her to understand , much less resolve . in her sixties , she 's still a work in progress . " something 's got ta give " recently showcased mature sexuality but in an amusingly antiseptic way assuring no viewer would be discomfited . after all it 's jack nicholson and the always beautiful diane keaton cavorting in the world of the rich . and to insure that no serious psycho - social issues were explored , keaton 's young girlfriend , amanda peet , daughter of keaton , not only blesses the match but insures that the audience knows she and her old(er ) would - be lover never hopped into the sack . no easy out here . anne reid 's inspired performance forces discomfort on some while drawing respect from others . her naked body bursts with sexuality for some and appears absurd as an object of physical attraction to others ( the comments of audience members leaving today reflected all these views ) . kudos to director roger michell for tackling a fascinating story with verve and empathy . 9/10 .
pos	this beautifully animated epic is never dull . 
pos	the lion king 1 1/2 is a very cute story to go along with the lion king . it basically follows the original story of the lion king but with a couple of twists . in the movie , e vents are explained by a different characters point of view . this story is still an original plot . as far as sequels go , disney is n't all that great at making worthwhile ones . this one , being the third part to the lion king ( simba 's pride is the second . ) actually has an original idea to it while still involving the fun of the first . timon and pumbaa travel along looking for the ideal place to live . after searching far and wide , they find the place of " hakuna matata " . they then meet a small lion named simba , and go through many things that parents today go through . i think this is a very good movie , and i 'm happy to add it to my collection .
neg	did i do something bad ?  i must have , because sitting through this movie was sheer punishment .  here's the plot .  ricky ( jeff goldblum ) is producer of the good-buy network , one of those 24-hour home shopping channels .  the new boss ( robert loggia ) plans to can ricky's behind if he doesn't turn the previous months' flat sales numbers around , and to add to his problems , ricky also has to work with kate ( kelly preston ) , the ivy league wunderkind whom the boss has brought with him .  kate and ricky don't get along and don't have any great ideas until they meet g ( eddie murphy ) , a spiritualist who sees something positive in everything .  his soothing voice and simple logic makes people feel good , and it's this quality that will make g the new gbn television star and the key to the network's success .  the first problem is a flaw in the plot .  sure , g makes people feel good .  sure , we're told that most people feel guilty after buying an impulse item , no matter how wealthy they might be , and i'll even believe that g talks a talk that allows people to feel good about what they've bought .  but , hey , that's after they've bought it .  why do sales skyrocket the first time g is on camera ?  far from trying to sell the product , g instead blathers on about how you don't even need the thing .  someone please tell me how this is supposed to move merchandise in the first place .  you might say that people feel good about what they've bought , so they come back and by more , but due to the simple fact that the first round of sales in inexplicable , i'm not convinced this is what the filmmakers had in mind .  the whole movie is therefore seriously undermined because the key point in the plot is never credible .  another problem is in the humor .  you know , if you see that eddie murphy is in a movie , i think it is not unreasonable for you to expect that the film is a comedy .  whoa , partner , are you in for a surprise .  holy man is not funny .  murphy , the one asset you'd think this movie has ( remember how they brought him in at the last minute to save best defense ?  - then again , maybe you don't ) is seriously reigned in .  the script gives him almost nothing to work with , and it seems as though director stephen herek kept him toned down so that the other actors in the film wouldn't be left as window dressing .  there's only one moment in the film where murphy is allowed to let loose , and it lasts for three shouted words , which seem totally out of place as a result .  pathetic .  in all , there are about three jokes that work in the entire picture , and they're not even that great .  as a side note , there are some cameo appearances such as dan marino pitching a contraption which allows you to cook off of your car engine , and james brown introducing a medic-alert device that shouts " help me ! "  just like the hardest working man in show business at the push of a button , but these never cause your personal laugh-o-meter to rise above the level of mild bemusement .   " well , " you ask , " surely there must be some convincing performances to make up for the lack of humor . "  think again , buckwheat .  jeff goldblum disappoints .  kelly preston is flat ( but not like that ) .  robert loggia , in the kind of role for which he has been virtually typecast , can't do anything with it .  the script is part of the problem , but these actors don't even look like they believe in the move they're making .  they look a lot like they're bored .  just like the audience .  so what do you have when the humor is absent from your comedy , and the acting is like the siberian steppes ?  a film that drags more than a dropped anchor .  but wait !  as if these problems don't make the film slow enough , the screenplay's pacing makes the movie even slower !  it takes the entire first half hour to establish the movie's premise , then more time as the film wades through a tortuous ( and seemingly mandatory ) romance between ricky and kate , and a sub-plot involving a conniving pr man ( eric mccormack ) who wants to discredit g and take over ricky's job as producer .  when the pr guy's plan is foiled , the film is climaxes , we're treated to that little epilogue , and then we can all go home , right ?  wrong .  the movie goes on for another half hour !  continental drift is the indy 500 compared to the pace of holy man !  the only thing holy about holy man will surely be the number of people exclaiming " holy ! @#% that movie was awful ! "  this one is for the truly pious .  
neg	shyamalan should stop trying to please his mom . 
pos	as a grownup in my mid-40s , i am not even close to any of " nancy drew " 's key demographics , but i was pleasantly surprised by the film this afternoon ; so , i could tell , were the pair of sixtyish silver - haired ladies down the row from me . the older man who left the theater just ahead of me specifically praised the film to the 20-ish female usher ( who said she 'd seen the film the previous evening and quite liked it ) . more to the point , however : in the row just ahead of me , there were nine -- count them , nine -- ten - year - old girls lined up next to each other , passing popcorn and hot dogs and candy back and forth and giggling through the previews . once the film began , they promptly settled down to watch .... .... and did n't so much as peep till the closing credits began to roll . this is not a perfect film ; it does n't quite pay off its high school subplots , it 's not quite confident enough of its own tone , and its thugs are just a hair too far over toward critically inept at times . but the adaptation of the source material is essentially respectful , the plot hangs together fairly well , and it treads deftly between the sins of excessive cheesiness and excessive modernization . last but not least , emma roberts carries the movie with startling grace -- josh flitter 's superb timing notwithstanding , this is roberts ' movie , and she pulls it off beautifully . her nancy drew is very much the direct ancestor of kristen bell 's veronica mars , and the film is also a lineal descendant of jodie foster 's early and underrated " candleshoe " . in today 's marketplace , it 's a rarity : a family movie that respects its viewers ' intelligence . as such , it wo n't be to everyone 's taste -- but for what it is , it is the best movie of its kind in decades .
pos	george little ( jonathan lipnicki ) wants a little brother .  after mr . and mrs . little ( hugh laurie and geena davis ) visit the orphange , they decide to adopt stuart , a talking mouse ( voiced by michael j . fox ) .  george isn't so fond of his new brother when stuart arrives at the little house , and neither is snowbell the family cat ( voiced by nathan lane ) .  george and stuart eventually bond while preparing for a remote control boat race , but snowbell wants stuart out of the house ( he's unable to live with the taunts of other neighborhood felines saying it's ridiculous that a mouse has a pet cat ) .  stuart little is a mix of live action and computer generated imagery ( cgi ) .  the character of stuart , while obviously a computer generated image , grows on you as the film progresses and you'll soon see him as much more than a mere special effect .  there is also a great deal of animal training involved with this film , as many of the " supporting cast " are actual cats ( with computer animated mouths so they can speak ) .  it's fascinating to watch these cats give performances without an actual mouse to interact with .  stuart little is a charming family film .  there are some great laughs in the movie ( with a script co-written by the sixth sense's m . night shyamalan no less ! ) ,  some moments that can only be described as " too cute " ( the boat race sequence is what won me over ) and even the majority of the one-liners ( common nowadays in children's films or films featuring nathan lane ) are tolerable .  kids and parents will love this one .  stuart little is available on dvd from columbia tristar home video .  there are two different dvds on sale : one contains the film in full frame , and the other presents the film in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 66 : 1 .  both versions feature choices of either dolby surround or dolby digital 5 . 1 audio .  both versions also contain the following extras ( and hang in there with me here . . . there's a lot of them ) : a full length audio commentary track by director rob minkoff and animation supervisor henry anderson , a full length audio commentary track by the visual effects supervisors , an isolated score track , an interactive trivia game , an interactive featurette that goes step by step through eight of the effects in the film , a making of documentary that originally aried on hbo , and a stuart little read-along story ( which you can read yourself or have stuart read for you ) .  there are also three music videos , and six theatrical trailers ( called thecatrical trailers . . .  get it ?  it's funny ! ) for stuart little and five other columbia tristar releases : the adventures of elmo in grouchland , madeline , the nuttiest nutcracker , muppets from space , and baby geniuses ( the only bad thing about this entire dvd . . .  i did not want to be reminded of the awfulness that is baby geniuses ) .  dvd-rom features are also on the disc , including web links and a demo of the stuart little cd-rom game .  but wait . . .  there's still more !  there's a section called " basement treasures " where you will find the auditions of the film's animators , six deleted scenes which you can select to view with or without commentary from the director , a visual effects gag reel , a production gag reel , and an incredible eight minute storyboard sequence detailing the original concept for the boat race scene ( with commentary from the director ) .  the first commentary track features director rob minkoff and animation supervisor henry anderson .  they give insightful and detailed thoughts about the film's production .  minkoff likes to point out scenes where other screenwriters came in and polished up the script , namely writers like scott alexander and larry karaszewski ( who wrote the people vs . larry flynt and ed wood ) and lowell ganz and babaloo mandel ( who wrote splash and multiplicity , among others ) .  anderson is very appreciative of the animators who worked with him and often points out which animator worked on each scene as they occur .  the second commentary track features visual effects supervisors john dykstra and jerome chen who discuss more specific details of the effects in the film .  movie fans will enjoy the informative first commentary track , serious animation buffs will love the second one .  now i know this is slightly off topic , but it is related specifically to this dvd so i must voice this now .  one of the music videos on the disc is for a song called " i need to know " by a group called r angels .  this video features four mid-teenage girls ( the singers obviously ) having a slumber party .  the girls ask a ouija board " i need to know . . .  who to do , who to do , who to do " as the song begins .  they then sneak out of their house , and along the way they strike a pose and their slumber party pajamas are magically transformed into middle class streetwalker outfits .  then they head to a party and dance suggestively with the guys while singing lyrics like " i'll be your pleasure all the time . . .  just say the words that you'll be mine " .  um . . .  what the hell ?  what does this have to do with stuart little ?  how is this in any way a song suitable for a kids movie , let alone a video suitable for a kids movie on dvd ?  when the video concludes , the words " to be continued " appear .  oh i can't wait to see who they've slept with when the toy story 2 dvd comes out .  kids won't care about most of the special features on this dvd , but those of us who can sometimes be turned into a " kid at heart " thanks to a winning family film sure appreciate them .  this is the way to do dvd , a good movie loaded with great features at a reasonable cost .  the di$ney people could learn a lot from columbia tristar .  
neg	a dull , inconsistent , dishonest female bonding picture . 
pos	made me unintentionally famous  as the queasy-stomached critic who staggered from the theater and blacked out in the lobby . but believe it or not , it's one of the most beautiful , evocative works i've seen . 
neg	a chiller resolutely without chills . 
pos	a perfectly competent and often imaginative film that lacks what little lilo & stitch had in spades -- charisma . 
pos	for all the homicide junkies out there , this movie was great ! every single character that ever was on the show made an appearance in the movie . it helped to resolve some ( but not all ) issues from the series . unfortunately , unless you actually did watch the series , most of the enjoyment would be lost , as the movie made heavy references to every season of the show 's existence . this probably would have been appropriate as a series finale as opposed to being a separate movie , but we got ta take what we can get . i hope they make more movies , and continue to feature homicide characters on law and order .
neg	200 cigarettes takes place on new year's eve 1981 .  monica , played by martha plimpton is having a huge new year's party .  everyone in town is trying to get there , but some are caught up in other things .  this is the basic plot of 200 cigarettes .  as we meet the characters headed towards the party , we are sent into many subplots which are unoriginal , and not interesting at all .  this disappointed me greatly .  the film should have been more about the party than the people trying to get there in my opinion .  lucy , played by courtney love , is with kevin , played by paul rudd .  the two are in a relationship that is more of a friendship , but starts to blossom into something more than that .  this subplot is extremely boring and dull , and i am getting quite sick of plots like that .  janeane garofalo is involved in another subplot , dealing with kevin .  she plays ellie , an ex-girlfriend of kevin's .  this subplot is completely a waste of garofalo's talent .  there was no point to it at all , and it was hardly even in the movie .  when lucy runs into a bartender , played by ben affleck , another subplot is formed .  the bartender is invited by lucy to come to monica's party .  at the bar , he runs into two more girls .  the girls are played by angela featherstone and nicole parker , but unfortunately , due to the terrible acting of both of them , i don't even remember their characters names .  ben affleck is a good actor , but his character doesn't go anywhere so he doesn't have much screen time to give a good performance .  featherstone and parker are horrible in their roles , and they are part of the reason the film is so bad .  christina ricci plays val , and gaby hoffman plays stephie .  the two girls are trying to get to the party but are extremely lost .  they meet some guys and end up going around with them all night .  this subplot was alright , but it was quite annoying with stephie's accent .  hoffman did an okay job of acting , but ricci did good .  she was underused , considering she is such a wonderful actress .  another subplot in the film is the relationship between cindy , played by goldie hawn's daughter , and jack , played by jay mohr .  jack is an actor who doesn't care about the girls he goes out with , he just likes dates for one night , and the next day he doesn't .  kate hudson is a huge klutz .  she gets herself into very funny situations , that are the funniest parts in the entire movie .  they are probably the only funny parts in the entire movie as well .  this subplot could have been used more , mainly due to hudson's performance .  mohr wasn't good , but he wasn't bad .  he was just alright , which i didn't find acceptable .  there is not much to say about the performances in the film .  none of the characters are developed or shown enough to really tell if the acting is good or not .  the only performances that i can judge are christina ricci's as always good performance , kate hudson's funny role , courtney love's mediocre performance , and paul rudd's annoying and overused performance .  i was hoping for a little more out of jaw mohr , ben affleck , casey affleck , gaby hoffman , dave chapelle , and especially out of janeane garofalo .  the two strongest things in the film were the great soundtrack and the original costumes .  martha plimpton and christina ricci had very different and original outfits which made me feel like i was in the year 1981 .  the soundtrack is full of 1980's tunes , ranging from " i want candy " to " tainted love . "  the songs in the movie also helped create the feel that you were back in the 1980s .  during the film , i often found myself asking the questions , " is there a reason to this ?  is there any moral story ?  is there a point ?  are any of the events going on in the film necessary ?  do i care what lucy and kevin are going through ? "  the movie is extremely boring , and by the time they reached eleven-o-clock , one hour before midnight , i could not wait for the movie to be over .  the plot is okay , but the subplots make it terrible .  maybe if the film was about the party , not about the people at the party , it could have been a lot better .  the bottom line : just like a slasher movie , this ? 80s comedy is just one too many .  
pos	yeah , these flicks are just that damn good . isn't it great ? 
pos	try as you might to resist , if you've got a place in your heart for smokey robinson , this movie will worm its way there . 
neg	such an incomprehensible mess that it feels less like bad cinema than like being stuck in a dark pit having a nightmare about bad cinema . 
neg	i'm sorry to say that this should seal the deal - arnold is not , nor will he be , back . 
pos	engages us in constant fits of laughter , until we find ourselves surprised at how much we care about the story , and end up walking out not only satisfied but also somewhat touched . 
pos	thanks to scott's charismatic roger and eisenberg's sweet nephew , roger dodger is one of the most compelling variations on in the company of men . 
pos	a work of intricate elegance , literary lyricism and profound common sense . 
pos	in an era where big stars and high production values are standard procedure , narc strikes a defiantly retro chord , and outpaces its contemporaries with daring and verve . 
neg	" witchery " might just be the most incoherent and lamentably scripted horror movie of the 80 's but , luckily enough , it has a few compensating qualities like fantastic gore effects , an exhilarating musical score and some terrific casting choices . honestly the screenplay does n't make one iota of sense , but who cares when linda blair ( with an exploded hairstyle ) portrays yet another girl possessed by evil powers and david hasselhof depicts a hunky photographer ( who ca n't seem to get laid ) in a movie that constantly features bloody voodoo , sewn - shut lips , upside down crucifixions , vicious burnings and an overused but genuinely creepy tune . eight random people are gathered together on an abandoned vacation resort island off the coast of massachusetts . the young couple is there to investigate the place 's dark history ; the dysfunctional family ( with a pregnant linda blair even though nobody seems to bother about who the father is and what his whereabouts are ) considers re - opening the hotel and the yummy female architect simply tagged along for casual sex . they 're forced to stay the night in the ramshackle hotel and then suddenly the previous landlady  an aging actress or something who always dresses in black  starts taking them out in various engrossing ways . everything is somehow related to the intro sequence showing a woman accused of witchery jump out of a window . anyway , the plot is definitely of minor importance in an italian horror franchise that started as an unofficial spin - off of " the evil dead " . the atmosphere is occasionally unsettling and the make - up effects are undoubtedly the most superior element of the entire film . there 's something supremely morbid and unsettling about staring at a defenseless woman hanging upside down a chimney and waiting to get fried .
pos	we want the funk - and this movie's got it . 
pos	casting " doogie howser " star neil patrick harris as mind-reading military intelligence is only one of the guilty pleasures of " starship troopers , " a hugely entertaining , mega-budgeted sci-fi yarn directed by paul verhoeven , who's making quite a recovery from his 1995 g-string epic " showgirls . "  sure , " starship troopers " qualifies as cinematic junk food , but that's forgivable when the junk food is this tasty .  everyone needs a high-calorie change-of-pace from fall's onslaught of costume dramas and other assorted oscar bait , and " troopers " does the job admirably despite its flaws .  for its first hour , " starship troopers " plays like a cheeky futuristic hybrid of " saved by the bell " and " g . i .  jane . "  in the distant years ahead , high school grad johnny rico ( casper van dien ) signs up for federal service along with his girlfriend carmen ( denise richards ) ; he gets accepted into the mobile infantry but she wants to travel to the fleet academy to become a starship pilot , so the couple is broken up .  but there's temptation awaiting both of them -- johnny's is in the form of an old friend ( dina meyer ) also in the infantry and still harboring a secret crush , while carmen attracts the eye of her flirtatious instructor ( patrick muldoon ) .  personal rivalry and sexual jealousy carry over into the final 65 minutes , when an impending alien menace begins making good on its threatening presence and obliterates part of south america , killing johnny's parents and destroying his home .  our weakening , lovesick protagonist is given new reasons to stick around the mobile infantry , and is dispatched with a group of fellow fighters to the aliens' home planet , where he will head up a ground assault to end the threat for good .  but the enemy is far smarter , more diabolical and numerous than the good guys give them credit for , and after an initial walloping , they must re-examine their strategy .  the exposition -- played like a futuristic soap opera -- is silly , but aware of its own ridiculousness enough to merit more smiles than groans .  once we get past the campy character introductions and the numerous ( but never boring ) training sessions , " starship troopers " really kicks into high gear .  its last half is all gruesomely violent action -- a fury of severed limbs , decapitations , disembowelments , brain removal , explosions and other jolt-inducers that are really going to please the 13- and 14-year-old boys lucky enough to dodge getting carded or caught on their way into this deservedly r-rated show .  the creature design and special effects are amazing as expected , and their interaction with the human actors are a realistic , imaginative high point .  it's nice to see intergalactic beasties that aren't too derivative of the titular menace from " alien . "  these monsters are appropriately terrifying sights , especially the arachnids , a spider-scorpion-crab combo that's all sharp talons and even sharper legs .  they attack in packs of hundreds , and it's a funny , scary sight to see these bugs take repeated hits and still crawl , jerk and struggle towards their intended victims in a determined , gooey mess .  it matters not that they actually have a laughable master plan in mind ( ask yourself if a species like this seems capable of carrying out such a plot ) ; these sequences of insect warfare are numerous , bloody and immensely satisfying .  the occasional dramatic moments -- one cast member's death , the final resolution to johnny's love triangle -- are botched , a testament to how " starship troopers " fails to create any strong , outstanding characters .  these bland ken-and-barbie archetypes serve the story adequately enough to keep any distractions at arm's length , but restrain the film from achieving a higher ground a la " star wars , " where even the slightest aliens had definite personality .  the acting is decent ( but never spectacular ) ; most of the performers hail from aaron spelling territory -- smallish roles on " beverly hills 90210 " and/or " melrose place " -- and it occasionally shows .  van dien , for example , is limited but perfectly likeable .  in smaller parts are the afore-mentioned neil patrick harris as johnny's best friend and jake busey ( gary's son ) as johnny's sidekick ; the latter excels at playing creeps ( see " the frighteners " or " contact " ) but seems off-kilter as a second banana .   " starship troopers " is based on the novel by robert heinlein , a sci-fi writer who hasn't exactly seen any recent adaptation justice done to any of his books what with 1994's howler " the puppet masters . "  but the overall familiarity to the " alien " trilogy -- and the promise of great gobs of gore -- could act as a crowd-drawer .  its own possible influence , however , might well work against it when the franchise continuation " alien : resurrection " opens in a few weeks .  we will know then which film to crown as the best summer movie of the fall .  
neg	several uninteresting , unlikeable people do bad things to and with each other in " unfaithful . " why anyone who is not a character in this movie should care is beyond me . 
pos	john von neumann , progenitor of the computer age and critically important mathematician on the manhattan project , pointed out long ago that there is a great way to explore the cosmos , even without recourse to faster-than light travel .  you send out self-replicating robot ships which explore and radio back information .  it may take decades , centuries , or millennia , but it can be done with achievable technology , and doesn't require a magical faster-than-light drive .  in the fifties , british astronomer fred hoyle improved on this plan by suggesting that it would be better to radio plans for a complex computer and a program for it ; any civilization capable of receiving the transmission could build the computer , which would then engage in a real-time dialog with the aliens , exchanging information and technologies , and hopefully arranging to send back what it had learned .  about thirty-five years ago , the bbc contracted with astronomer/writer fred hoyle and writer frank elliot to create the scripts for a mini-series called a for andromeda .  afa concerned the reception of a hoyle transmission , the construction of a huge computer , the computer's analysis of life on earth , and its creation of an apparently human intermediary to facilitate communication .  she was played with ethereally inhuman perfection by the then-unknown julie christie .  audience response was so strong that the bbc contracted for a sequel , andromeda breakthrough , which played to equally high ratings .  dennis feldman , whose previous credits include the golden child , has never been noted for coherent , well-structured movie scripts ; they start out great , and then disintegrate into a morass of chase and action , mitigated only by the presence of the obligatory beautiful girl .  feldman writes good scenes , but has no idea how to tell a story or write a movie , even with a previous version to use as a model .  now , in species , we have a mundane retread of the andromeda plotline , derailed by a preoccupation with removing the clothes from the leading lady and further ruined by a mediocre attempt to emulate several recent horror films in terms of splatter , gore , and chases .  species features ben kingsley , who is completely wasted in a badly-written portrayal of a feebly amoral scientist .  forest whitaker and alfred molina are also served poorly by the script .  the species story is relatively simple ; we have been radioing information about ourselves and our dna out into space since 1971 , and have been receiving answers for two years .   ( note that , in the 1970's , we really didn't know diddly about the human genome structure , and were hardly in a position to radio out a set of blueprints for human beings .  even today , all we can do is give information about dna and how it works , not a copy of human dna , because we don't have it analyzed yet . )  the answers we get from the unknown alien source are plans for recreating a member of the alien race , and doctor xavier finch , played by ben kingsley , is placed in charge of the attempt .  the script begins to go off the deep end at this point , when the result is a beautiful young girl who can shape-shift into any of several ugly alien life forms .  the first half of the film has something to offer , as " sil , " the alien girl , struggles with her multi-form existence , changing from beauty to lizard to giant cockroach and back again , all while trying to understand her own place in the cosmos .  she seems oddly knowledgeable about human society , with glaring gaps where her social skills should be .  her instincts are to mate and procreate , and some of the best scenes deal with her attempts in this area .  escaping from her birth laboratory in utah , sil is pursued by a team of drafted civilians with orders to find her and kill her .  she goes on an eating binge , spins herself a cocoon , and emerges as an adult , played by natasha henstridge , who goes a long way toward re-creating the sheerly inhuman beauty julie christie achieved in 1960 .  the pursuers : michael madsen is an assassin/exterminator ; forrest whitaker is a convenient empath/psychic , just as though the u . s . government actually had such people on call .  neither is able to do much with the writing and directing provided .  whitaker's role seems to be aimed at making whitaker a male copy of star trek : the next generation's " counselor cleavage . "  the other members of the strike team are played by marg helgenberger and alfred molina .  kingsley and whitaker are both consummate professionals , too good to not work to the best of their abilities ; but the performances donaldson elicited from the rest of the cast are disappointing and bland , and it is apparent that the direction was a bit weak .  h . r . giger's design for the main form of the alien creature is actually a bit boring when we finally get to see it , although previous digital effects were done quite smoothly .  the main fault of species is lack of originality ; it starts out with a wonderful , albeit borrowed , premise , and then doesn't live up to it .  all we get are chase scenes and a few nice sex scenes , with a few monsters tossed in .  there is no buildup of tension and suspense , no climax worthy of the name ; species is just a sequence of " scare " scenes stuck together .  the movie is carried by its chase and sex scenes , but not rescued by them .  on the other hand , as an exercise in sci-fi action/ adventure , it certainly beats the ichor out of judge dredd .  species earns an extra rating point or two for having ben kingsley and natasha henstridge on board , but by and large , it's fun only for those of us who really like this sort of thing .  my personal rating is three stars , but knock one or two of those off if you don't enjoy pretty unclothed ladies and bloodthirsty alien monsters .  mpaa classification : r ( violence , gore , nudity , sex , language )  stars : ben kingsley , michael madsen , forest whitaker , alfred molina , marg helgenberger , natasha henstridge directed by : roger donaldson produced by : frank mancuso jr . and dennis feldman typed by : dennis feldman cinematography : andrzej bartkowiak music : christopher young run time : 108 minutes aspect ratio : 2 . 35 : 1 from mgm , opens 7 july 1995  
pos	thoughtful , even stinging at times , and lots of fun . 
pos	 . . . tunney is allowed to build an uncommonly human character , an almost real-live girl complete with trouble and hope . 
pos	this three hour movie opens up with a view of singer/guitar player/musician/composer frank zappa rehearsing with his fellow band members .  all the rest displays a compilation of footage , mostly from the concert at the palladium in new york city , halloween 1979 .  other footage shows backstage foolishness , and amazing clay animation by bruce bickford .  the performance of " titties and beer " played in this movie is very entertaining , with drummer terry bozzio supplying the voice of the devil .  frank's guitar solos outdo any van halen or hendrix i've ever heard .  bruce bickford's outlandish clay animation is that beyond belief with zooms , morphings , etc . and actually , it doesn't even look like clay , it looks like meat .  
pos	one of the most important artistic movements in the history of cinema was without a doubt german expressionism , the highly atmospheric style of film - making developed during the 20s in berlin . classic movies like " das cabinet des dr. caligari . " ( 1920 ) and " nosferatu , eine symphonie des grauens " ( 1922 ) were the most famous direct results of this movement , and while the movement did n't have a long life , its enormous influence over cinema can still be felt today , specially in the horror genre . one of the key figures of this style would be director paul wegener , director of 1920 's " der golem , wie er in die welt kam " , as in his debut as a filmmaker , seven years before the making of that classic , he was already making experiments with expressionism in film . that early prototype of german expressionism was incidentally , another horror film : " der student von prag " . " der student von prag " ( " the student of prague " ) , is the story of balduin ( paul wegener ) , a student with the reputation of being the best fencer in prague , but who always find himself with financial troubles . one day , balduin rescues the beautiful countess margit ( grete berger ) from drowning in a lake after her horse drop her by accident . balduin falls immediately in love with her and tries to see her again , but soon he discovers that he 'll have to compete with her rich cousin , graf von schwarzenberg ( lothar körner ) , who also wants to marry her . knowing that he ca n't offer her much , balduin wishes to be wealthy , and this is where a sorcerer named scapinelli ( john gottowt ) enters the scene . scapinelli offers balduin infinite wealth in exchange of whatever he finds in his room . balduin accepts the proposal , only to discover in horror that what scapinelli wants is his reflection in the mirror . loosely inspired by edgar allan poe 's short story " william wilson " and the classic legend of " faust " , the story of " der student von prag " was conceived by german writer hanns heinz ewers , a master of horror literature and one of the first writers to consider scriptwriting as valid as any other form of literature . written at a time where cinema in germany was still being developed as an art form , " der student von prag " shows a real willingness to actually use cinema to tell a fully developed story beyond a camera trick or a series of scenes . like most of the scriptwriters of his time , ewers screenplay is still very influenced by theater , although " der student von prag " begins to move away from that style . while a bit poor on its character development ( specially on the supporting characters ) , ewers manages to create an interesting and complex protagonist in the person of balduin . while " der student von prag " was paul wegener 's directorial debut and stellan rye 's second film as a filmmaker , it 's very clear that these two pioneers had a very good idea of what cinema could do when done properly . giving great use to guido seeber 's cinematography , the two young filmmakers create a powerful gothic atmosphere that forecasts what the german filmmakers of the following decade would do . wegener would learn many of the techniques he would employ in his " golem " series from seeber and rye . despite having very limited resources , rye and wegener manage to create an amazing and very convincing ( for its time ) visual effect for the scenes with balduin 's reflection ( played by wegener too ) . already an experienced stage actor at the time of making this film , wegener directs the cast with great talent and also attempts to move away from the stagy style of previous filmmakers . as balduin , paul wegener is very effective and probably the best in the movie . it certainly helps that his character is the only one fully developed by the writer , but one ca n't deny that wegener was very good in his role as the poor student who loses more than his mirror reflection in that contract . john gottowt plays the sinister scapinelli with mysterious aura that suits the character like a glove . few is said about scapinelli in the film , but gottowt makes sure to let us know that he is a force to be feared . the rest of the main cast is less lucky , with grete berger being pretty much average as countess margit , and lothar körner making a poor graf von schwarzenberg . however , it must be said that lyda salmonova was pretty good in her expressive character and fritz weidemann made an excellent baron waldis - schwarzenberg , showing the dignity that lörner 's character should have had . considering the movies that were being done in those years in other countries and the fact that its remake ( made 13 years after this film ) is superior in every possible way , it 's not difficult to understand why " der student von prag " has n't stood the test of time as well as other early films . the movie 's main problem is definitely its extremely low budget , as it resulted in the film being considerably shorter than what ewers ' story needed to be fully developed . this makes the plot feel a bit too vague at times , or even incomplete , as if there was something missing in the narrative ( of course , there 's also the possibility that the existing print is really incomplete ) . however , " der student von prag " is a very interesting early attempt at a complex tale of horror and suspense in film that , while inferior to what other filmmakers were doing at the time , left a powerful impression in history . as the direct predecessor of the german expressionist movement , it 's hard to deny the enormous importance that " der student von prag " has in the history of german cinema , probably in the history of cinema in general . it may look dated even for its time , but considering the limited resources its director had , it 's truly better than most films from that era . as the movie that started paul wegener 's career , and with that german expressionism , " der student von prag " is a must see for everyone interested in this slice of film history . 7/10
neg	once one experiences mr . haneke's own sadistic tendencies toward his audience , one is left with a sour taste in one's mouth , and little else . 
neg	brady achieves the remarkable feat of squandering a topnotch foursome of actors . . . by shoving them into every clichéd white-trash situation imaginable . 
pos	close your eyes for a moment , if you will , and imagine the sound of stephen rea's gaelic brogue , silky smooth and irish like a pint of guinness .  a lackadaisical , naughty little schoolboy voice that flirts and gambols .  an acerbic , sing-song metered voice that evokes the startling imagery and language of anthony burgess' " a clockwork orange . "  a voice that deliciously conjures scenes both porcine and puerile , like those out of " delicatessen , " or " the tin drum . "  imagine all of that , and you'll get a good sense of what you can expect from " the butcher boy . "  imagine that and more .  neil jordan's latest film " stars " rea in more ways than one .  rea , the accomplished irish actor most notable from his star turn in jordan's " the crying game , " contributes a restrained and managed performance as da brady , a small town drunk in an unnamed irish community in the 1960s .  but it's his wall-to-wall narration as the butcher boy of the title , da brady's son , francis , that makes rea's " performance " worth watching , worth listening to .  and that's only half the fun .  playing the young francie brady is newcomer eamonn owens and he is , without a doubt , a revelation .  for as much as rea's voiceover permeates almost every scene of " the butcher boy , " owens commands virtually every frame .  it's impossible to take your eyes off him .  with his crop of carrot-colored hair , ruddy complexion , and overall grubby appearance , francie brady is an unlikely hero , refusing to be done in by his alcoholic , trumpet-playing father , his depressive , suicidal mother , or the neighboring , bespectacled monster known as mrs . nugent ( fiona shaw ) .  in fact , everything was ok until " the nugent " came to town .  now , she poses as much a threat to the safety and security of town bully francie and his best pal joe ( alan boyle ) as the looming commie menace ( " the butcher boy " is set at a time when the fear of nuclear obliteration is first and foremost in the minds of many ) .   " pigs ! " screams mrs . nugent at the brady menagerie .   " you're all pigs ! "  it's the start of many a related image .  after ma brady is shipped off to the " garage " for psychiatric observation and da brady downs one bottle of whiskey too many , francie finally loses grip of his fantasy world of cowboys and indians , the lone ranger , and other comicbook characters .  squealing like a stuck pig , francie does " the likes o' that " on the nugent's living room floor , and is himself whisked away to a very catholic remand home for " boney arsed bogmen , " where his ever fertile imagination--and clever chicanery--runneth over .  director jordan's vivid treatment of pat mccabe's nightmare novel produces a sometimes disturbing , dark comedy littered with surreal touches ( such as sin ? ad o'connor playing the virgin mary ) .  it's not as outlandish as the trailers make out ; instead , this remarkable film focuses on the effects external influences have on the friendship between two boys ( schoolboy chums in real life ) , allowing us to empathize with their plight in the presence of extraordinary behavior .  it's bleak and it's black but it's fundamentally very funny .  rea talks us through it , beautifully , and owens drags us though it , admirably , and , in tandem with jordan's sure hand , theirs are contributions to make " the butcher boy " a film worth savoring .  
pos	a compelling pre-wwii drama with vivid characters and a warm , moving message . 
pos	this tenth feature is a big deal , indeed -- at least the third-best , and maybe even a notch above the previous runner-up , nicholas meyer's star trek vi : the undiscovered country . 
neg	robin hood : men in tights is another mel-brooks-produced film in the classic tradition of movies like blazing saddles and young frankenstein .  mel brooks is well known for his comic look at regular life , his fast paced dialogue and sharp wit .  unfortunately , robin hood : men in tights has none of the easy going humor of blazing saddles , none of the fun acting of young frankenstein , is devoid of the charm of spaceballs , and is even lacking the good , solid dialogue of history of the world .  it is , in short , one of the worst movies i have seen mel brooks , or anybody else , produce .  the plot borrows heavily from the well-received kevin costner movie of last year , robin hood : prince of thieves .  this is not surprising in and of itself , and could have been used to great comic effect , mainly by parodying scenes from the orginal movie .  mel brooks does not take advantage of this , however , and uses the film to launch several ideas into the air , none of which connect and none of which are explained later on .  the movie's scenes could be shuffled around in any order and one would be hard pressed to notice .  cary elwes , of princess bride fame , plays robin of loxley , a man who was captured in the crusades , fighting with king richard .  he escapes and , joining with a man named achoo ( i am sure you can see the obvious joke ) , fights in england to reclaim his name and the throne for richard , which has been captured by evil prince john , played by funny comic richard lewis .  he also tries for the love of maid marian and attempts to overthrow the evil " sheriff of rottingham " .  a good adventure plot that is sadly unused .  elwes and lewis are both excellent comics , but the dialogue in the movie is simply excruciating .  neither actor has any good words to work with , and the lines simply aren't funny , nor believable .  perhaps the worst example of this is when the group of merry men encounter a man playing a macaulay culkin clone from the hit movie home alone .  this particular scene is so out of place and so badly acted , and followed by so many other scenes of equal miserable ideas , that i really felt like leaving the theatre .  much of the audience continued to look at their watches throughout , and some left the theatre .  chuckles were few and far between , and they mostly dealt with visual jokes ( such as an old , beaten up horse from " rent-a-wreck " ) then from any dialogue whatsoever .  scenes that could have been classics , such as the archery contest , are ruined by poor acting .  perhaps the largest problem with the movie is that it is simply offensive .  the basic plot , that robin has received a key that will unlock the chastity belt of maid marian , is not witty nor funny .  mel brooks as a circumcision-giving rabbi is also offensive to me and others in the audience ( not all jewish , either ) .  the movie simply tries to hard trying to be funny and by and large fails .  the addition of a blind man who stumbles around , falling off cliffs , walking into ledges and being a general buffoon could have had some humorous potential , but is also made terribly offensive .  the only reason to see this movie is the surprise actor at the end who plays king richard .  he is well worth waiting for , if you can stand an hour and half of unfunny dialogue , excruciating visual humor , old puns , ancient jokes and bad acting .  if you can't , don't even bother watching this miserable film .  
pos	against all odds in heaven and hell , it creeped me out just fine . 
neg	big fat liar is little more than home alone raised to a new , self-deprecating level . 
pos	confessions may not be a straightforward bio , nor does it offer much in the way of barris' motivations , but the film is an oddly fascinating depiction of an architect of pop culture . 
pos	sandwiched in between san francisco and captains courageous two of spencer tracy 's greatest parts is this very curious film about war and the effects it has on some people . they gave him a gun stars spencer tracy and franchot tone in the only film they ever made together and gladys george as the woman who loves them both . tracy and tone are a couple of world war i draftees , tone is a weak character who almost goes over the hill in boot camp , but tracy stops him . tracy is still playing the lovable blowhard , younger wallace beery type that mgm envisioned for him when they signed him away from fox .   over at the front tone gets an opportunity and takes it when during a fight he manages to get to a church tower that peers down on a german machine gun nest . he 's learned to shoot by now and he does a sergeant york . but alvin c. york was never changed by the war the way tone has . wounded in the fight tone convalesces at a hospital with gladys george looking out for him . tracy goes awol himself to visit his pal and he and george get something going . later on when tracy is reported missing in action , tone and george marry . tracy 's brokenhearted when he comes back and learns of the marriage , but takes sit in stride .   the rest of the film is dealing with tone applying the the wartime skills he 's learned to the gangster trade . he 's a hit - man now and george does n't really know what he does for a living . i think you can figure the rest out . the part of the film that gave me some trouble is that i ca n't believe gladys george could n't figure it out . she 's a street smart girl , her part is very much like the one she played in the roaring twenties opposite james cagney . speaking of the roaring twenties , humphrey bogart 's character development there is similar to tone 's although he was not the central character of the movie . in fact there are elements of they gave him a gun that are to be found in taxi driver and in clint eastwood 's classic , the unforgiven .   the world war i battle sequences are very well staged by director woody van dyke . for some reason leonard maltin panned this film , i think it 's a lot better than he gave it credit .
neg	first and foremost i think this movie comes to grief at the hands of the pg rating it's been given .  for those of us who haven't read the james lee burke novel that heaven's prisoners is based on , do not rabidly go out and buy tickets to movies featuring the combined talents of alec baldwin and eric roberts , feel vaguely depressed by the notion of swamps , gangsters with louisiana accents , plots , sub-plots , more plots , and well , really just want to see teri hatcher naked , this is one movie you're going to worry the price of admission over .  hopeful still ?  well , let me share my moment of sheer panic , and then the cold enervation of the big let-down when a semi-robed hatcher purrs to alec baldwin , " what do you think of my butterfly ? " .  butterfly ? ,  i asked myself , what butterfly ? !  and then it hit me . . .  the scene had been snipped !  damn you , godless pg rating , show us her butterfly ! !  we want to see the goddamn butterfly ! ! !  so . . .  no naked teri hatcher .  forget about that .  okay ?  now . . .  heaven's prisoners is about ex-alchoholic ex-cop dave robicheaux ( alec baldwin ) who's trying to discover life anew running a bait shop and boat hire business with his loving , down-to-earth wife annie ( kelly lynch ) .  everything dull , but hunky dory until a plane carrying illegal immigrants crashes almost ontop of the couple while they're on their boat .  the plane nosedives into the water and sinks , but from its wreckage robicheaux rescues a little pixie-faced salvadoran girl whom he and his wife immediately decide to adopt .  what they don't realise is that the plane's pilot was also a drug dealer , and that the plane had been sabotaged by the latter's erstwhile colleagues .  when robicheaux discovers this , he predictably , against the advice of his wife , a well-meaning dea agent , and two gangsters who rough him up , begins 'poking his nose where it don't belong' , we know that the man deserves all the misery he's going to get .  the question now is whether or not you want to be dragged along for the ride through a tedious , meandering yet utterly suspenseless plot with an unlovable hero as your guide .  as dave robicheaux , alec baldwin is fat . . .  no seriously , this is not the svelte , thinking man's hero of the hunt for red october , it is an out-of-shape guy who doesn't look too good in a roof-top chasing scene .  he's also unconvincing in the movie's dramatic moments , acting with what as far as i can tell is a steven segal-like economy of expression .  three-quarters of the way through the show , while you're probably waiting for the next scene in a bar where robicheaux contemplates succumbing to the temptation of the whiskey bottle , getting drunk and beating up someone or getting beaten up , you'll want to beat on him a little yourself .  on the other hand , mary stuart masterson ( some kind of wonderful , fried green tomatoes , benny & joon ) cast as a down-and-out stripper who has her fingers broken is quite a breath of fresh air , with just the right mix of cynicism , warmth , insecurity and humour to be the movie's only endearing character .  eric roberts as bubba rocque , always believable as the woman-abusing bad guy who knows how to box ( see final analysis , coincidentally also directed by phil joanou ) is believable here as the woman-abusing bad guy who knows how to box .  and lest we forget teri hatcher's role in all this , this being her rather well-publicised paid vacation from playing lois lane on tv's " adventures of lois & clark " . . .  she is totally ridiculous as rocque's manipulative and seductive cajun wife , coming across as devious as a mildly disgruntled au pair who's trying to get back at an employer who hasn't been giving her enough days off .  it's probably safe to say that her day job beckons .  and at the end of our day , none of this is really worth 2 hrs and 12 minutes of our personal misery .  the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice .  
neg	 . . . one resurrection too many . 
neg	well-meaning but inert . 
pos	 ( warning to those who have not seen seven : this review contains some spoiler information . )  seven is a powerful , fully-realized film on the level of the silence of the lambs .  it is a disturbing film that accomplishes its biggest of goals--it occupies the viewers mind long after the closing credits have rolled .  while this film is not for the squeamish , there is no denying that seven demands attention , for it is a film that transcends its genre in both style and substance .  for starters , classifying seven as a " thriller " would not be an altogether complete classification of this film .  while i was genuinely thrilled throughout , i would rather call seven an " intense drama , " because that is what it delivers--meaningful scenes with a relentlessness that does not readily let up .  part of director david finchers accomplishment is in style .  he seems to have a knack for knowing exactly how the average person fears something as " simple " as a corpse .  and visually , fincher shows us the remains of murder victims in all-too-realistic and graphic terms ( courtesy of rob bottin's always-grisly special effects ) .  throw in the appropriate but not-to-be-underestimated effects of lighting and a foreboding score and the result is a technical masterpiece of the murder scene .  these scenes alone are quite impressive ; as fascinating as they are harrowing .  yet , seven is more than just a technical accomplishment .  in addition to style , fincher supplies substance .  seven has compelling characters that it wants us to know and understand , and fincher ties them all together in a completely pessimistic view of society .  detective william somerset ( morgan freeman ) is a man who has nearly given up on the world .  its easy to see why .  the world doesn't make sense .   ( somerset drives this point home with a rather ghastly story of a robbery victim who was attacked just blocks from the police precinct .  after knocked down and robbed of his wallet , the attacker stabbed the helpless man in both eyes . )  why should somerset believe that by following this murder investigation and " picking up the pieces " he will be able to catch the killer ?  somersets new partner , david mills ( brad pitt ) has not given up on the world , perhaps because he is still young ( and perhaps by having this optimism he's naive in this films portrayal of the world ) .  he completely disagrees with somersets abandonment of hope .  however , david's wife ( gwyneth paltrow ) has so much fear of her urban surroundings , she isn't even sure if she wants to * tell * her husband about her recent pregnancy , let alone carry it until birth and attempt to raise it in this environment .  these three characters are all performed with skill and authenticity that makes them feel like real people and not the typical hollywood characters a lesser film might have offered .  and in addition to making clear how each of these characters sees the world , fincher gives us support for * why * they feel the way they do .  but if there's one character that underlines the message seven is trying to convey , it has to be the killer , john doe ( kevin spacey ) .  seven's payoff lies in its ability to allow us to see how the killer views the world and what drives him to do what he does .  one important thing to remember about doe is how easy it is to simply dismiss him as a " psycho , " with no motives behind his slayings .  this is exactly the mistake mills makes .  in the extremely intense and superbly performed closing scenes , were allowed to see that doe is , in his mind , merely a product of society .  he's a killer who kills those who are bringing society down .  in his mind he didn't kill " innocent " people , and , perhaps , they were not completely innocent ( but , then again , who is ? ) .  hes absolutely infuriated that mills believes that the murder victims were innocent .  really , seven doesn't just comment on the superficial obviousness of how screwed-up john doe is .  seven makes larger statements about how screwed-up society is , hinting that society's degradation is simply conducive of creating more john does .  besides the stylistic and larger-issue arguments for seeing this film , i recommend seven because it is , after all , also a very slick and well-made thriller .  it features exciting plot developments , commanding performances , lots of suspense , and a conclusion that is chilling , riveting , and quite unfair .  but then again , its a cruel world .  
neg	in addition to sporting one of the worst titles in recent cinematic history , ballistic : ecks vs . sever also features terrible , banal dialogue ; convenient , hole-ridden plotting ; superficial characters and a rather dull , unimaginative car chase . 
neg	what happens when something goes bump in the night and nobody cares ? 
neg	[a] soulless , stupid sequel . . . 
pos	hawke draws out the best from his large cast in beautifully articulated portrayals that are subtle and so expressive they can sustain the poetic flights in burdette's dialogue . 
pos	thurman and lewis are hilarious throughout . 
pos	with each of her three protagonists , miller eloquently captures the moment when a woman's life , out of a deep-seated , emotional need , is about to turn onto a different path . 
pos	this ready-made midnight movie probably won't stand the cold light of day , but under the right conditions , it's goofy ( if not entirely wholesome ) fun . 
neg	'dragonfly' is a movie about a bus wreck that turns into a film wreck . 
neg	an uplifting drama . . . what antwone fisher isn't , however , is original . 
neg	 " spice world " is just one long promotional film for the british girl band the spice girls .  sure there's a hint of humor in there every once in a while .  actually , there's a couple of pretty good jabs at the spice girls .  but overall , who cares ?  not me .  if you don't know by now , the spice girls sing songs of love and friendship and responsibility and girl power , yet dress like streetwalkers from a lower middle class neighborhood .  in " spice world " they ride around in their big tour bus , whining about having to do photo shoots and give interviews .  amazingly , all the talk they do about keeping commitments and upholding responsibilities only really applies to fun things , things they want to do , not things they are required to do to keep earning money .  and they keep babbling about " girl power " when they should really be talking about " cleavage power " .  i mean , if all it takes is girl power , then why are they only one thread away from bursting out of their skimpy outfits ?  the film is pg , but really with only some very minor dialogue changes and scene extentions , you'd have yourself one raunchy adult film .  by the way , there's something in the opening credits which says " based on an idea by the spice girls " .  wow , they got idea credit !  i certainly wish that was a new trend in hollywood . . .  giving credit for simply having the thought " say girls , let's make a movie ! "  the supporting cast fares well .  roger moore ( the real james bond ) mockingly plays the cliche-spewing " chief " of the spice girls , and darn it all , he's fun to watch .  mark mckenney also is good as a screenwriter trying to pitch film ideas to the band's manager ( richard e . grant ) .  one question though : george wendt ?  you'd think that " spice world " would envoke one of two reactions in people .  if you like the spice girls , you'll like them even more afterwards .  and if you can't stand them ( like me ) , then " spice world " will really make you sick .  oddly , the audience i saw the film with , roughly 50 twelve year-old girls , sat in silence for the entire film .  well , not the two who sat directly behind me .  they kept muttering " this is stupid " over and over again .  maybe there is hope for humanity after all .  [pg]  
pos	i swear i have seen the edge before .  in fact , it reminded me of the bear , the river wild , and other various films mixed into an entirely different film .  however , the edge has done something that most action films should do , and that is add heart and characters we like to the plot .  in doing so , the edge draws many more suspenseful moments out of cliched scenes than , say , the peacemaker .  unfortunately , because of those overused moments , we can pretty much guess the outcome of the film .  but leave it to screenwriter david mamet to add humor and a few surprises to mess with your head .  one surprise , in particular , left me smiling just because mamet actually had the guts to add it to his script .  action films are a dime a dozen in hollywood , and while they are somewhat successful at entertaining us , they lack the one thing which would make them a more respected genre : intelligence .  even horror films have learned this , a genre which is probably the least respected of them all .  the river wild was one of the best action/suspense films i have seen from the 90s .  the intelligence of the screenplay , and the suspense drawn from the realistic characters is nearly unmatched to this day .  the edge has the intelligence and smart characters , but this time the lack of originality is the downfall .  i must admit that it was very suspenseful , and had an original third half , but the first hour and a half is riddled with cliches and plot holes .  this is an example of the final act saving the film , instead of the other way around ( as in the lost world ) .  if only the screenplay had maintained the final thirty minutes' intensity , it could have become a great action film ( and i use the term loosely ) .  the edge is pretty much a survival-of-the-fittest film .  but taking scream's lead , the edge makes fun of the genre's cliches , and then uses them ( though not quite as effectively ) .  charles morse ( anthony hopkins ) is the main character , a rich and very intelligent man who wonders what the accumulation of all this knowledge has brought to him .  for once , we don't immediately care for the main character .  instead , we like bob ( alec baldwin ) , a photographer who is going to take pictures of charles' wife , mickey ( elle macpherson ) , out in the wilderness .  they board a plane and head to a cabin somewhere in the arctic .  charles' birthday is the same day , and he receives a gold watch from his wife , and a pocket knife from bob .  as action films go , these items do have importance to the rest of the story , but quite a bit more than we first expect .  soon , however , bob wants to find a native to shoot pictures of because of his " personality . "  charles , bob , bob's assistant steve ( harold perrineau ) , and the pilot head off to find him , and as shown in the previews , hit a flock of birds flying south for the winter .  down the plane goes , the pilot is killed , and the three are left to survive in the wilderness .  director lee tamahori is aware of the silly plot which is about to follow , and therefore has to create original ways to approach the situations .  he succeeds often enough for us to enjoy the film .  take , for instance , the entire man-hunting bear plot .  this has been done many times in films with different animals , and even bears .  but given the charles' intelligence , and bob's uncertainty , many of the cliches are given fresh twists .  even charles himself seems to have seen these action films before .  my favorite line of the film comes from charles : " most people die in the wilderness because they didn't do the one thing that could save their life . . .  thinking . "  despite the predictability of the main plot , a subplot develops late in the film which took me by surprise , and made me smile when i realized that everything isn't as it seems anymore .  i have to write cautiously as to not reveal this surprise , so instead i will avoid it entirely .  the first two-thirds of the edge have many humorous moments to push it along , and some of charles' survival techniques seem possible , even making fire from ice .  tamahori is able to create a lot of suspense from the stalking bear , but whenever the bear is present , the characters lose all sensibility .  i have always wondered why characters in films walk over a log to get across water .  why not do what an intelligent person would and crawl across ?  i guess getting chased by a bear makes your thought process turn off for a while .  thankfully , we already have begun to care for the characters , and so we let this small detail slide .  but some of the technical details are awkward , such as the nice stitching done on the fur coat that charles and bob make ( where did they get thread and needles ? ) .  the acting of the film is highly above average for a film of this nature , and borders on phenomenal .  anthony hopkins gives a terrific performance , creating his most likeable and layered character since remains of the day .  hopkins usually brings greatness to his roles , but here he exceeds at gaining the audiences' sympathy , something he definitely did not do in silence of the lambs .  alec baldwin gives one of his best performances i have ever seen ( it sure is better from his fair game ) .  baldwin can be a good or a bad character , and here he succeeds at both in a way .  you can never quite guess if he is a nice or a vllainous character until the end , and baldwin is able to handle the double-natured photographer .  elle macpherson gives a good performance , albeit slight .  she isn't in the film all that much , but for the scenes she does have , she handles as an actress , not as a model .  harold perrineau is a good actor , and his scenes are nice and underplayed .  he is eliminated early , and i reveal nothing by saying this because it is inevitable and predictable .  the edge is rated r for graphic violence , some gore , and language .  some of the violence is a little too disturbing , even for me .  this film is a nice change from the mindless action most of us are used to , but too many cliches bog it down .  director tamahori has created a very smooth and suspenseful action film out of recycled parts .  david mamet's script , though , has a lot of humor to keep the first hour afloat , and the acting is solid .  the best thing about the script is the ending which doesn't end with the normal high-strung action sequence , but with a small detail involving a certain gift .  it's a nice touch considering what we have had to go through with the bear .  and by the way , most people laughed when the film faded to black due to a large credit to bart the bear .  way to go , bart .  
neg	narc is all menace and atmosphere . 
neg	the film doesn't have enough innovation or pizazz to attract teenagers , and it lacks the novel charm that made spy kids a surprising winner with both adults and younger audiences . 
neg	i ca n't say this is the worst movie ever made , but personally i think of it that way because when it was originally released in theaters , ( 1 ) the initial buzz was positive enough that my girlfriend insisted we go see it , and we actually stood in line to get tickets , and ( 2 ) it 's still the only " serious " film i recall where the audience started snickering at a certain point and basically laughed at the movie the rest of the way through . once we reached the infamous ( and interminable ) snake fight scene , i think everyone gave up . the only positive i can concede is the lush location shooting . oh , and there 's also bo 's breasts , although her acting is so wooden that the nudity is unerotic and does n't rate much more than a playboy pictorial . the " dramatic tension " in this film is between bo 's terrible acting and her husband 's horrible direction . the snake fight has to be one of the most incompetent " action " sequences ever filmed . however , this is one of those films that 's bad enough , it may be worth watching on the level of unintentional humor . definitely the worst film i ever paid to see .
neg	a new entry in the " revisionist history " genre of filmmaking , dick suggests that two not-too-bright teenage girls are the cause of the uncovering of the nation's biggest presidential scandal .  kirsten dunst and michelle williams star betsy and arlene , who while trying to deliver a fan letter from arlene's watergate hotel room , accidentally stumble across g . gordon liddy ( played dead-on by harry shearer ) and the infamous break-in .  when they recognize liddy later on during a white house field trip , they are ushered into a conference room , questioned as to what they know , and leave as official presidential dog walkers .  the girls manage to unwittingly uncover every bit of the watergate scandal while performing their duties , but have no clue as to what they are getting involved with .  when they discover that nixon ( another dead-on performance by dan hedaya , who actually favors nixon slightly , unlike anthony hopkins ) has been abusive to checkers , the presidential dog , thanks to the conversations that he always recorded , they quit and become disillusioned .  during a prank phone call the girls make to woodward and bernstein , events are set into motion that eventually lead to the president's resignation .  this film starts off promisingly with an aged woodward and bernstein arguing with each other on an obvious larry king-type talk show ( featuring a cameo by french stewart ) about revealing the identity of " deep throat " .  from there , we are subjected to bodily function humor and just about every bad " dick " joke one can derive from this type of supposed comedy .  at one point , the girls are having to scream over a high school band playing on the steps of the lincoln memorial .  the band manages to stop right as dunst screams " you have to stop letting dick run your life ! "  much to the horror of everyone standing within earshot .  several other variations on this wordplay surface all throughout the film .  if this movie had been smarter i would have been less likely to fault it's juvenile bathroom humor , but it's not .  the film was apparently made for relatively younger people because every major player in the watergate scandal is introduced and shoved down the audience's throat in the least subtle way possible .  i don't recall oliver stone's nixon having to pander to it's audience , but of course that film wasn't a comedy aimed squarely at a 13-20 year-old film going audience .  the only redeeming thing about this movie is it's remarkable supporting cast .  i wanted to see more of ferrell and mcculloch's woodward and bernstein .  those two characters are the sole basis for my rating .  i wish they had been given more screen time , but unfortunately , they are only relegated to the final half-hour .  their constant bickering and fighting over trying to get the story are a major highlight , especially mcculloch's constant thwarting of ferrell's attempts to gather information from the girls ( who , in the course of the narrative are revealed as deep throat , so named thanks to an ill planned trip to a porno theater by betsy's brother ) .  the other members of the cast are excellent in their portrayals of their particular characters , but are given nothing to work with .  i'd like to see the same cast portray these characters in a script more suited towards their comedic abilities .  as for the two leads , dunst and williams can definitely do better .  they come off as what could best be described as romy and michele : the early years in this particular film , a highly dubious distinction at best .  stay through the first half of the end credits though , to see an interesting scene involving dunst and williams suggestively sucking on lollipops emblazoned with the title of the movie .  an excellent idea marred by poor execution , dick could have been a great movie .  less of the juvenile humor and more of the smarter comedy displayed by the woodward and bernstein scenes , could have made this film a wonderful satire of the nixon presidency as seen through the eyes of two naive fifteen year olds .  as it stands though , dick offers nothing but what filmmaker kevin smith so accurately defines as " dick and poopie " jokes .  and that , to me , does not make a funny movie .  [pg-13]  
neg	it looks good , but it is essentially empty . 
neg	you don't look at a ren ? magritte painting and search for a deeper meaning .  you likewise don't look at one for 88 minutes straight .  surrealist works are notable for their quirks , and they are fun , but looking at one quirk for an hour and a half is exhausting .  that was my experience with i woke up early the day i died , a surrealistic , hyperactive comedy with no dialogue .  it's not a silent movie ; there is lots of atmospheric music , occasional screams and weird sound effects , but nobody ever utters an audible word .  though the film is distinctive , its unique style wore thin after about 20 minutes , and as it progressed , watching became a chore .  the only reason the script ever got filmed is because it was written by the pseudo-legendary ed wood , the man behind such " classics " as plan 9 >from outer space and night of the ghouls .  the joke , of course , is that his films are so bad , they're good ; so humorous in their inanity that they become hits .  i woke up early the day i died , unfortunatly , is so bad that it's really bad .  it stars billy zane ( titanic ) as a dangerous lunatic who overpowers a nurse , escapes from a mental hospital and proceeds to wonder around , stealing a car , clothes , and a load of money .  our thief reaches a cemetery , where he witnesses a bizarre ritual .  he falls asleep and finds himself , literally , in a hole , with his money gone .  for whatever reason , he is bent on getting his hard-unearned cash back ( considering how easily he stole it the first time , why didn't he just go steal some more ? ) .  he comes upon a list of the people who were at the mysterious ceremony and commences to seek out each of them and kill them if they don't have what he is looking for .  i don't think either director aris iliopulos nor ed wood realized that this would have made a glorious 20 minute short .  the subject and the style seem to have been made for it .  unfortunately , twenty minutes worth of material is stretched out to more than four times that length , and the film simply overstays its already dubious welcome .  it grabbed my attention in the beginning and gradually lost it as it went on , up to the point where halfway through i was already weary .  it might seem odd that a film as furiously paced as this one can be so tedious ; but the surprise will wear off when you consider how repetitive it is .  i woke up early the day i died is a comedy , i guess , though it could have fooled me .  unlike most ed wood films , this one tries to be funny and fails , instead of the other way around .  there's nothing inherently wrong with that , in fact , i think it would only make sense for someone who has been so " good " at making unintentional comedies to take a stab at a real one .  whether wood actually went for comedy in his script we'll never know , but in either case , this is a failure .  jonathan taylor thomas , christina ricci , summer phoenix , john ritter and others show up for short and pointless cameos .  ricci , for example , plays a prostitute .  her role consists of dancing around with zane in his motel room and then being thrown out .  thomas is an astonished onlooker as a woman gets thrown off a cliff .  was the home improvement teen heartthrob really that desperate for work ?  zane , meanwhile , occupies himself by making weird faces at the camera when he is not called upon to run around wildly and beat people up .  lack of dialogue makes him the ultimate caricature .  the carnival side-show climax manages to demonstrate everything that is wrong with this no-budget production .  it's desperately unfunny , but thinks it's the funniest thing since plan 9 ; , it's so spontaneously surrealistic it makes your head spin all while being confusing enough to make your head spin twice as fast in the other direction .  i hope another film is made from an ed wood screenplay for i woke up early the day i died is not a fitting send-off .   ? 1999 eugene novikov &#137 ;  
neg	the movie is so thoughtlessly assembled . 
pos	a fun family movie that's suitable for all ages -- a movie that will make you laugh , cry and realize , 'it's never too late to believe in your dreams . '
neg	putting the primitive murderer inside a high-tech space station unleashes a pandora's box of special effects that run the gamut from cheesy to cheesier to cheesiest . 
pos	fresnadillo has something serious to say about the ways in which extravagant chance can distort our perspective and throw us off the path of good sense . 
pos	it's a smart , solid , kinetically-charged spy flick worthy of a couple hours of summertime and a bucket of popcorn . nothing overly original , mind you , but solidly entertaining . 
pos	it's bright , pristine style and bold colors make it as much fun as reading an oversized picture book before bedtime . 
pos	takes you by the face , strokes your cheeks and coos beseechingly at you : slow down , shake off your tensions and take this picture at its own breezy , distracted rhythms . 
pos	at its worst , the movie is pretty diverting ; the pity is that it rarely achieves its best . 
pos	it's probably worth catching solely on its visual merits . if only it had the story to match . 
pos	though few will argue that it ranks with the best of herzog's works , invincible shows he's back in form , with an astoundingly rich film . 
pos	a wonderfully speculative character study that made up for its rather slow beginning by drawing me into the picture . 
neg	woody allen has really found his groove these days . the problem is that it is one that allows him to churn out one mediocre movie after another . 
neg	i'm just too bored to care . 
pos	insomnia is one of the year's best films and pacino gives one of his most daring , and complicated , performances . 
pos	the amazing film work is so convincing that by movies' end you'll swear you are wet in some places and feel sand creeping in others . 
neg	while easier to sit through than most of jaglom's self-conscious and gratingly irritating films , it's still tainted by cliches , painful improbability and murky points . 
pos	helps to remind the first world that hiv/aids is far from being yesterday's news . 
pos	i love the way that it took chances and really asks you to take these great leaps of faith and pays off . 
pos	* * warning - contains spoilers ! * * first of all , i would like to say that i really liked this game . i got it for christmas after two months of dropping hints to my parents . i am glad that i did that . first off , i would like to say that the single player was very good . the first level is probably one of the best in the game , when you are at a party in london , and some evil guys ruin it by kidnapping the prime minister 's daughter . of course you have to rescue her , and it is quite a big level , but should probably take you at least five minutes . the best part , and i think also the funniest part , is when you are in the jet - pack , and people are rappelling down big ben . just equip the jet - pack 's most trusty rocket launcher and blast the clock faces and the enemies down . pure fun ! the rest of the levels are very good , but pretty short . there are four mini - levels you can unlock , and that is one of the let downs , because only the first two of them are actually fun , and the last two to unlock are just ' kill 25 enemies ' objectives , i mean , c'mon ! we got loads of points to unlock these missions and the last two bonus missions are really bad ! the multi player , me and some of my friends agree , is very good and challenging , even if there are no bots . halo did n't have any bots but that is still some fine multi player games ! you can be a load of bad guys , and you go against each other , and you can also set traps , which is the best way of killing people without going into view of their character . gameplay - 8.5/10 ( levels can be quite repetitive and bonus missions could be improved ) . graphics - 9/10 ( there is the odd bad graphic , but that is n't extremely often ) . multiplayer - 10/10 ( needs no comment , just great , you get to drive in jet - packs and vehicles ) . sound - 8/10 replay value - 7/10 ( the only levels i go back on are the loondon level and istanbul part 1 ) . i give this game : 8.5/10 could have a bit of improvement , but it 's still good .
neg	the only reason you should see this movie is if you have a case of masochism and an hour and a half to blow . 
neg	in " gia " , angelina jolie plays the titular character , the first so-called supermodel .  and right there you have the biggest hurdle this movie had to overcome ( in my eyes , anyway ) .  i just don't see how the life of a model is worthy of a two hour film .  despite this , i kept an open mind when i began watching the movie .  sadly , though , my fears were realized .  it's just not possible to make an interesting , full-length film about a person who spends their days wearing different clothes .  the movie follows the rise and fall of gia ( no last name ) , a tumultuous woman who doesn't particularly enjoy the world of fashion .  she becomes famous more quickly than she can handle , and finds herself hooked on drugs and on a woman she cannot have .  the last hour of the film is just one scene after another of gia getting high , losing a job , and going into rehab .  this formula is repeated several times , and i really got tired of it .  in general , i tend to dislike movies featuring heavy drug use .  no because it offends me or anything like that ; it just bores me .  quite frankly , i don't see the appeal , so when a director shows me a point-of-view shot of a junkie , complete with tipsy camera angles and echoing voices , i am left somewhat unimpressed .  the first hour of the film , though , was actually quite engaging .  we see gia as she is discovered and moves to new york with her boyfriend .  these early scenes were interesting .  we're shown the fashion world through a newcomers eyes , and it was a perspective i hadn't seen before .  the movie begins to go downhill , however , once gia becomes an established model .  >from that point , i lost all interest in the movie and was counting the minutes before it would end .  it all seemed so excessive .  fine , so gia had a drug problem , does this really need to dominate the film ?  couldn't the same effect have been had with a five or ten minute montage of scenes featuring gia experimenting with drugs ?  or perhaps this film is meant to be a warning to aspiring models not to get into the drug world .  quite possibly , although since i have no desire to become a model , this warning is lost on me .  as i stated at the beginning of this review , i simply don't see how the life of a model is worthy of a feature-length motion picture .  what do they do that warrants a movie ?  strut their stuff for thousands of dollars an hour ?  i suppose the same could be said about making movies about baseball players , for example , but at least somebody like lou gehrig led an interesting life .  gia did not .  and by the end of the film , all i knew about gia for sure was that she hated modelling , was bi-sexual , and was heavily into drugs .  not exactly a meaningful contribution to society , as far as i'm concerned .  
neg	es triste tener que decirles que lo único grato de la cinta es el cuerpo desnudo de la heather . . . 
neg	it's a sad state of affairs when the back box blurb is more exciting than the movie contained within it .  such is the case for the 1990 paul mayersberg film _the last samurai_ .  though the blurb alludes to " a jungle filled with political intrigue , uneasy alliances , and murderous enemies at every turn , " the story of the movie is actually quite simple ( and prosaic ) : a middle-aged japanese businessman named endo ( played by john fujioka ) and his assistant , both of whom have samurai aspirations , travel to africa in search of his ancestor , who went to bring buddhism to africa .  he hires the services of down-at-the-heels vietnam veteran pilot johnny congo ( the redoubtable lance henriksen ) and his girlfriend ( arabella holzbog ) , and travels to the camp of an arms-merchant-cum-safari-host- cum-islamic-missionary ( john saxon ) and his wife ( lisa eilbacher ) .  they are all kidnapped by an african revolutionary guerilla with witch-doctor aspirations to conceal a pre-arranged arms deal , which subsequently falls through .  congo escapes , finds endo's ancestor's sword , and comes back , guns blazing , to free the rest of them , and endo kills the revolutionary with the sword .  the end .  _the last samurai_ is one of those movies that is neither bad enough nor good enough to be enjoyable .  it is merely _there_ .  the murky plot is filled with subtexts that are never elaborated , subplots that are never explained , and many scenes that make very little sense at all .  the film is shot through with all the tired old " inscrutable japanese samurai " and zen stereotypes that are to be expected from an american movie .  it is quite slow-paced , with only a bit of action near the end , and the final duel between endo and the terrorist is quite anticlimactic .  most of the acting is fair , with the possible exception of congo's girlfriend .  lance henriksen is his usual scene-chewing self , and is one of few possible reasons anyone might conceivably have for seeing this movie .  the only other bright spot is the sweeping african scenery .  i paid $3 for this film , from the discount rack at best buy , and halfway suspect i overpaid for it .  if you are in the mood for samurai , read a clavell novel or watch a kurusawa movie .  skip _the last samurai_ unless you are a die-hard henriksen fan .  
pos	a quietly reflective and melancholy new zealand film about an eventful summer in a 13-year-old girl's life . 
pos	the film's welcome breeziness and some unbelievably hilarious moments -- most portraying the idiocy of the film industry -- make it mostly worth the trip . 
neg	seems like someone going through the motions . 
neg	from the opening scenes , it's clear that all about the benjamins is a totally formulaic movie . 
neg	capsule : where are you tonight , leni rienfenstal ?  starship troopers is an expensive , hateful and unenjoyable piece of violent pornography -- and bad pornography , at that .  it is not good cinema , not good storytelling , and not even stupid fun : it's so cynically , calculatedly bone-headed that even the least demanding members of the audience i was with were alternately bored and revulsed .  it's one of the worst movies i've seen in a long time .  why am i calling this movie pornography ?  pornography , in the abstract , is anything which is calculated to appeal to the baser instincts .  i remember reading a review of full metal jacket which described the climact moment at the end of the movie , where private joker has to shoot the downed vc sniper , as " a near-pornographic eternity " .  i didn't agree with that assessment , but i could see what was being implied : the reviewer felt as if the audience was being incited to stand up and pump their fists and shout " do 'er , man , do 'er ! "  that sentiment is echoed ad nauseam throughout starship troopers .  it's * literally * like a giant recruitment film that has gone berserk .  it tries frantically to enlist our emotions but it winds up only being dull or sickening .  the film takes place in our future , when earth has come under attack by some alien species that doesn't appear to have intelligence .  to counterattack , humankind does the single stupidest thing imaginable : instead of nuke the planet from orbit , which they're clearly capable of , they send down grunts with m-16 rifles .  this isn't heinlein , it's a bad wwii movie , one where all the most obvious points of satire are ever poked and prodded in combat scenes that are noisy , repetitive , and ultimately tiresome .   ( one scene has a journalist on a battlefield , filimg soldiers being slaughtered , and ends with groaning predictability : said cameraman gets skewered , too . )  the soldiers and their commanders are consistently idiotic .  they do not possess a germ of tactical intelligence or even common sense .  they don't even behave like soldiers in a bad * movie * , and therefore we don't care about them .  we hated the tom berenger character in platoon , but he * mattered * , and therefore we were curious to learn about his fate .  here , we don't even hate the bugs -- what's there to hate ?  hating them would be like cursing a hurricaine .  if there's anything really hateful there , the movie doesn't know how to give it to us .  the screenwriter ( ed neumeier -- perhaps a better appelation would be " screen typist " ) and director ( the increasingly talent-impaired paul verhoeven ) have not found any way to make the characters or the story serve each other .  one of the subplots concerns a woman pilot who's great at getting out of tight situations , and does it again and again and again .  once or twice is fine .  by the fifth or sixth time , it's worn out its welcome .  there's never any sense that these people are really thinking their way out of anything , or really being tested to show their mettle .  also , the movie is irritatingly selective with how effective the bugs are to earthling weaponry .  if a bug has one of the humans screaming in its grasp , then five guys can stand around it and blast away on full auto without doing a damned thing .  but if one human gets cornered , he lays waste to whole platoons of bugs with one clip .  uh-huh .  the very worst feature of the movie is its repulsive quasi-fascist flavor .  i say " quasi- " because while the movie uses many of the trappings of fascism ot eroticize its action -- the gear , the uniforms , etc . -- the movie doesn't have the nerve ( or the brains ) to be genuinely fascist , or intelligent about the subject .  the bumpers between scenes , which are apparently intended to parody wartime recruitment propaganda are propaganda -- just so clumsy and oafish that they wind up making the bugs look relatively innocuous in comparison .  like the rest of the movie .  there's more , i suppose , but it's not worth it .  the acting is bland , neither arsenic nor gravy ; the music disposable ; the camerawork turgid .  the heartbreaking thing is that it makes independence day look like a masterpiece .  
pos	although german cooking does not come readily to mind when considering the world's best cuisine , mostly martha could make deutchland a popular destination for hungry tourists . 
neg	 " goodbye , lover " sat on the shelf for almost a year since its lukewarm reception at the cannes film festival last may , and one look will tell you why .  it's a mess .  and that's * way * before ellen degeneres shows up .  the film is one of those torrid double-indemnity crime stories that , in this case , required the services of three screenwriters .  i suspect that one wrote a sexy thriller , one wrote a murder mystery , and one wrote a comedy , then director roland joff ? tried to piece it all together in the editing room while scratching his head in bewilderment .  i didn't laugh at ellen degeneres much ( i think i was supposed to ) .  degeneres is horrible and her character is even worse , a tough-talking vulgar cop with a bad wardrobe and bad hair .  either degeneres is wearing a wig--as most of the actors appear to be--or she doesn't yet have enough clout to secure a hairstylist .  every single word out of her mouth is supposed to be racy and hip , but her incessant wisecracking is poorly-written and merely stupid .  her reaction to the brutal killing of a jogger is " at least she died healthy . "  and that's one of her wittier asides .  degeneres' sgt .  rita pompano is called in to investigate the allegedly accidental death of . . . wait .  to give away too much of the plot would all but ruin a film that has very little going for it outside of its numbing plot twists and multiple triple-crosses .  it's best described this way :  sultry sexpot/real estate agent sandra dunmore ( patricia arquette ) is married to jake , a " creative yet unfocused " ( and alcoholic ) advertising rep , played by dermot mulroney .  sandra likes to act out her deep-seated sexual fantasies and jake's brother ben ( the suave-as-ever don johnson ) likes to help .  ben is also coming on to his petite , mousy co-worker peggy blaine ( mary-louise parker ) and someone , somewhere , is planning to cash in on that huge life insurance policy of his .  the film is ripe with cheating lovers cheating on each other and back again .  although there are some genuine surprises , the plot twists get too contrived too quickly .  probably around the time degeneres' gumcracking gumshoe appears .  at least the former " ellen " star is going for something a little different .  arquette turns in yet another of her stiletto-heeled , platinum blonde bombshell roles ( see : " lost highway , " " true romance " ) while quoting embarrassing lines like " i'm not wearing any underwear . "  i hope she got paid a lot of money to do this .  here's an example of some of the film's flat-out stupidity .  sandra purchases a used car and disguises herself in a red wig prior to stalking two of the film's duplicitous lovers .  she drives the motorbiking couple off a cliff while blaring her favorite " the sound of music " on her car stereo , intent on identifying herself to her hapless victims .  so what was the point of the wig and the car ?   " the sound of music " stuff might be a reference to " the wizard of oz " allusions in david lynch's " wild at heart , " but if so joff ? must have forgotten that " wild at heart " was a despicable movie .  it's hard to believe that " goodbye , lover " was directed by the same person who made " the killing fields " and " the mission . "  it's not , however , hard to see why it sat on the shelf for so long .  it should have stayed there .  
pos	manages to be original , even though it rips off many of its ideas . 
neg	as written by michael berg and michael j . wilson from a story by wilson , this relentless , all-wise-guys-all-the-time approach tries way too hard and gets tiring in no time at all . 
neg	i 'm a christian who generally believes in the theology taught in left behind . that being said , i think left behind is one of the worst films i 've seen in some time . to have a good movie , you need to have a well - written screenplay . left behind fell woefully short on this . for one thing , it radically deviates from the book . sometimes this is done to condense a 400-page novel down to a two - hour film , but in this film i saw changes that made no sense whatsoever . another thing , there is zero character development . when characters in the story get saved ( i wo n't say who ) , the book makes it clear that it 's a long , soul - searching process . in the film it 's quick and artificial . the book is written decently enough where people like rayford steele , buck williams and hattie durham seem real , but in the movie scenarios are consistently given the quick treatment without anything substantial . in another scene where one character gets angry about being left behind ( again , i wo n't say who ) , it seems artificial . i realize as a christian it 's unedifying for me to say i disliked this film , but i ca n't in a good conscience recommend a film that i feel was horribly done . perhaps it would 've been better to make the first book into 2 - 3 films . either way , christians need to realize that to be taken seriously as filmmakers , we need to start by putting together a film in a quality way . i realize a lot of effort probably went into left behind , but that 's the way i see it .
neg	it all seemed wasted like deniro's once promising career and the once grand long beach boardwalk . 
neg	'the château is never quite able to overcome the cultural moat surrounding its ludicrous and contrived plot . '
pos	the production values are of the highest and the performances attractive without being memorable . 
neg	though it pretends to expose the life of male hustlers , it's exploitive without being insightful . 
pos	bob the happy bastard's quickie review :  rush hour  so what's the problem with 48 hours clones these days ?  they always try for the same thing that eddie murphy and nick nolte had .  that was the problem that plagued these clones , not to mention the actual sequel : another 48 hours , a complete waste of film .  but , at last , someone has a different take on the matter , and it's director brett rainer .  rush hour features jackie chan in his first u . s . action movie , playing a chinese detective who's being flown to the us to investigate the kidnapping of the chinese consulate's daughter .  of course , the fbi is upset that he'll be interfering in their investigation , and stick him with an lapd office with a big mouth- of course , that's chris tucker .  what makes rush hour work so damn well is the chemistry between the energetic chan and the absolutely hilarious tucker .  tucker mouths off to chan at every given opportunity ( " i'm michael jackson , you tito . " ) , and chan delivers a few zingers of his own , as well as some terrific fight scenes .  the story's pretty much your average fare , but with a decent twist involving the main villain , a highly clouded figure named jun tao .  at least it's entertaining , and the concept is excellently realized .  a particular fight scene in a chinese office , where chan and tucker duke it out with the bad guys , is funny and energetic at the same time .  and the finale's a real treat as well . . . chan  delivers yet another fantastic stunt for the fans with a 10-story drop .  rush hour is just the sort of film you'll get a kick out of on any night of the week .  just make sure you don't look for anything culturally different and you'll be fine- drunken master ii this ain't .  
neg	when a film is created solely because it's a marketable product , soulless and ugly movies like this are the result . let your silly childhood nostalgia slumber unmolested . 
neg	the film starts promisingly , but the ending is all too predictable and far too cliched to really work . 
neg	the film is so busy making reference to other films and trying to be other films that it fails to have a heart , mind or humor of its own . 
neg	for a movie with such deep religious and spiritual undertones , it is surprising to find the messenger : the story of joan of arc such an ungodly mess .  in the early to mid 1400's , there was little in the way of spiritual light to be found shining from the heart of a man or woman .  the church was a dismally dark and oppressive place .  france was involved in " the hundred years war " against england .  there was no strong political leadership in the country .  morale was low , there being little hope for the future .  it was within this setting that a young french girl began hearing " voices " and seeing " visions . "  convinced that these were messages from god , she brazenly demanded to see the dauphin in order to deliver the message directly to him .  the message : if he would give her an army to command , she would deliver to him the crown .  he does . . .  and she does .  then , once seated on the throne , he abandons her to her english captors .  director luc besson ( the fifth element ) may have co-wrote the script but he never appeared to have a proper handle on the material .  the inconsistencies of the cast , the confusing blur of the violent battle scenes , the inappropriate musical score , and the lack of a vibrant life force at the center of the film adds up to a largely disappointing end product which is oftentimes unintentionally laughable .  his biggest miscue was to cast his wife , milla jovovich ( the fifth element ) in the title role .  ms . jovovich , looks spectacular as joan , clad in battle armor , astride a similarly protected horse .  if looks were enough to fully convey a character , she would have been brilliant .  since it isn't , she tried ( and failed ) to act the part .  her joan is unbalanced , " inspiring " the troops merely by screaming stridently and waving her banner or sword over her head like a woman possessed .  john malkovich ( being john malkovich ) fares a bit better as the dauphin , who joan would see on the throne as charles vii .  an easily manipulated man , his weakness of character foreshadows the betrayal of joan which would lead to her death .  faye dunaway ( the thomas crown affair ) gives a strong performance in minimal screen time as the dauphin's mother-in-law and chief advisor .  the army under joan's command are comprised of comical figures , more stooges than soldiers .  the one exception would be tcheky karyo ( la femme nikita ) as dunois , the man who was leading the attack prior to joan's arrival .  trying to plan a systematic campaign , he sees his leadership authority negated by joan's insistence on following her " visions . "  dustin hoffman ( sphere ) has a small inhuman role as joan's conscience which begins speaking to her while awaiting trial .  dressed like cloaked monk , he leads her to doubt herself and her " revelations . "  as well she should .  scriptures do speak of revelation .  god , via his gift of holy spirit , is able to communicate to men .  three of the nine manifestations of holy spirit listed in 1 corinthians 12 deal with receiving revelation .  they are : word of knowledge , word of wisdom , and discerning of spirits .  even the scriptures themselves are a result of god giving revelation to his " holy men . . .  who spake as they were moved by holy spirit ( i . e .  by revelation . ) "  but the scriptures also caution us :   " beloved , believe not every spirit , but try the spirits whether they are of god : because many false prophets are gone out into the world . "  1 john 4 : 1 [kjv]  joan's end , ( being burned at the stake at the age of 19 ) , the frenzy ( mob rule ) and blood lust her inspiration wrought , and the death , pain , or suffering which followed her campaign all point to a devilish influence rather than a godly one .  while her conviction and intense believing remains an admirable quality , she was , as others have been before and since , misled by the spiritual master of deception .  as a messenger , she was quite effective .  she was just confused as to whose message she was carrying .  
pos	three girls ( an all - female media - crew , including cult - actress barbara bach , no less ) visiting a small town to cover a festival , end up renting rooms in a house they should have avoided like the plague . well - made little shocker , suffering a bit from some redundant dialogue - scenes and a rather thin plot - line ( that does n't do very well in hiding its secrets ) . one underlying theme in particular is quite disturbing ( as in : vintage shock - material ) , and this is basically what the film thrives on . performances & cinematography are pretty much above par ( compared to many other late 70's / early 80 's films in the same vein ) , but what really makes me recommend this film is the fairly long climax - scene in the basement - setting . from the moment that " keller junior " character was introduced , his performance made my jaw drop open and it did n't close until the end of the film . a very pleasant surprise to see actor sydney lassick ( who was funnily wacko in " one flew over the cuckoo 's nest " , and now utterly demented in " the unseen " ) take on one of the leading roles .
pos	a great film this , and a shame that it will receive little attention outside of arthouse circles and students who stay up until two in the morning to watch it on channel four . the plot is a simple one but works very effectively , the blurring between child - like fantasy and hard - hitting nightmare is very well blurred . the budget looks pretty low , but to the credit of those involved it does n't show too often . it also has n't dated that much either . i was lucky enough to tape this off the telly when it was on a few years ago , and it has withstood half - a - dozen viewings . it 's one of those films that wo n't appeal to all ; though as usual , those with a more thoughtful approach to cinema would get a lot out of this . charlotte buerke puts in a good performance as anna , the spoilt brat and it is a shame she seems to have gone from the acting scene . cross is also very good , carrying the stature of his character very well within the context of the picture . there are some genuinely ( and i do n't say that lightly ) disturbing moments in this film , both half - second shockers and more drawn - out tensions . watch it with the lights out ! highly recommended . 9/10
pos	if ayurveda can help us return to a sane regimen of eating , sleeping and stress-reducing contemplation , it is clearly a good thing . 
pos	it's like an old warner bros . costumer jived with sex -- this could be the movie errol flynn always wanted to make , though bette davis , cast as joan , would have killed him . 
neg	a farce of a parody of a comedy of a premise , it isn't a comparison to reality so much as it is a commentary about our knowledge of films . 
neg	gee , a second assassin shot kennedy ? moot point . 
pos	there is something that is so meditative and lyrical about babak payami's boldly quirky iranian drama secret ballot . . . a charming and evoking little ditty that manages to show the gentle and humane side of middle eastern world politics
pos	it is not as great a film as many people believe ( including my late aunt , who said it was her favorite movie ) . but due to the better sections of this film noir , particularly that justifiably famous " fun house " finale , the lady from shanghai has gained a position of importance beyond it 's actual worth as a key to the saga of orson welles ' failure to conquer hollywood . by 1946 welles ' position as a hollywood figure was mixed . citizen kane was not recognized as the great movie it has since been seen as due to the way it was attacked by the hearst press and by hollywood insiders themselves . welles ' attempt at total control ( direction and production and acting ) of his movies seemed to threaten the whole system . his best job in this period was as edward rochester in jane eyre , supposedly shot by robert stevenson , but actually shot in large measure ( with stevenson 's blessing ) by welles . but the credit went to stevenson . only the stranger , a film benefiting from a postwar interest in fleeing nazi war criminals , made a profit . for five years in hollywood it was barely a great record . welles returned to broadway in 1946 , hoping to recapture his critical abilities by his production of around the world in 80 days . but despite the assistance mike todd , and cole porter composing the score , the musical was a failure . his failure occurred just at the same time that his wife , rita hayworth , was on the rise with her portrayal of gilda . so the marriage was going on the rocks as well . welles had to make money - his broadway production had led to his personal bankruptcy . he sold his interest in the possible movie rights to around the world to todd ( which he would eventually rue ) , and he also sold the idea of a film about the career of henri desire landru to charlie chaplin , who was supposed to be directed in it ( and who turned it into monsieur verdoux ) . the story goes that welles , with a $ 10,000.00 tax bill to worry about , called cohn and offered to do a film with rita for a down payment . cohn was willing to do so , but naturally asked what the film was . it was a wise question . welles was on a pay phone in new york in a pharmacy that had a book department . he grabbed a book with the title the lady from shanghai , and raved that it was a great thriller . somehow welles convinced the normally astute cohn that welles knew what he was talking about . cohn said he 'd look into getting the rights , and sent welles his down - payment of $ 10,000.00 . after cohn hung up welles bought the book and read it - and found it was really pretty bad . he spent time rewriting a treatment and screenplay that would build up rita 's character of elsa bannister . certainly it has a curious plot development . michael o'hara is a seaman / longshoreman . he rescues elsa bannister , when she is apparently attacked by gangsters in a park in san francisco . elsa is married to arthur bannister ( everett sloane ) a crippled criminal lawyer with a great reputation . she convinces him to hire michael as the skipper of their yacht . the cruise also contains bannister 's sinister partner george grisby ( glenn anders ) and one sidney broome ( ted de corsia ) who turns out to be a detective hired by bannister to watch elsa . when they can michael and elsa try to find time together , but broome or grisby keeps showing up . grisby makes michael an offer - he wants ( for reasons connected to his so - called fatalistic view of modern society ) to drop out of it , pretending to be dead . according to grisby ( the plot becomes murky here ) he can still collect his life insurance ( although dead ? ) and use it to run off to the south seas . he will pay michael $ 10,000.00 if he will pretend to shoot grisby . this includes actually signing a document admitting to the murder ( michael does not realize that such an admission would wipe out the need to produce a corpse if all the other evidence suggests that grisby is probably dead ) . of course grisby is killed , and michael is arrested for that , and for the murder of broome ( shot with michael 's gun ) . michael is tried with bannister defending him , and discovers that the latter is doing a second rate job because he wants michael to be convicted . michael is convinced that bannister is the actual murderer , and manages to escape just before the jury verdict . he is knocked out and deposited in a deserted carnival , and this leads to the famous " fun house " sequence and the conclusion of the film . it 's a terribly confusing movie ( as i have had commented on ) . that does not mean it 's not worth seeing - visually it is striking . witness the fight between michael and the police in the trial judge 's quarters , where he knocks the bailiff into the judge 's bookcase , shattering glass . or the clever use of photography to capture hayworth diving from a rock , reflected on the lecherous grisby 's binoculars . the acting is pretty good , in particular sloane ( possibly that fine actor 's best film role ) . glenn anders was a leading broadway performer . he rarely made movies before the lady from shanghai , and his slimy grisby is unforgettable . also ted de corsia does very nicely with broome - a detective who is really looking for his own interests , to his own cost . as for hayworth , she turns in a performance that was unlike most of what she had done before ( blood and sand , tales of manhattan , and the strawberry blond are exceptions ) , and is a memorable siren . welles ' o'hara is a very unusual character for the actor - a likable but naive man who learns the hard way not to believe what he secretly wants to believe . it 's not kane , ambersoms , othello , touch of evil , or chimes at midnight , but it is a good film for all that .
pos	she's all-powerful , a voice for a pop-cyber culture that feeds on her bjorkness . 
pos	the powder blues and sun-splashed whites of tunis make an alluring backdrop for this sensuous and spirited tale of a prim widow who finds an unlikely release in belly-dancing clubs . 
pos	ice age won't drop your jaw , but it will warm your heart , and i'm giving it a strong thumbs up . 
pos	it's a hoot and a half , and a great way for the american people to see what a candidate is like when he's not giving the same 15-cent stump speech . 
neg	while the transgressive trappings ( especially the frank sex scenes ) ensure that the film is never dull , rodrigues's beast-within metaphor is ultimately rather silly and overwrought , making the ambiguous ending seem goofy rather than provocative . 
neg	run ... do not walk away from this movie ! ! ! ! ! aimed at the very young kids , this movie will bore you to tears . if the gamera trilogy of the 90 's raised the bar , this film just lowered it . it 's slow paced and the monster fighting is good , but seldom seen . this movie had me dry heaving in the cat box . just a very poor offering after a phenomenal 90 's series . spoilers beyond this point ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! here are the top 10 reasons gamera fans of the 90 's series will hate this film . 10 . this movie is a drama that follows a kid trying to cope with the death of his mother and fears losing baby gamera to a fight after knowing his father saw the adult gamera die . 9 . you see the adult gamera for maybe a minute at the beginning of the film . he gets his butt kicked by a few gyaos and self destructs ? ? ? he looks old and lethargic . plus he looks nothing like any gamera you 've ever seen . his suit looked cheap and rushed . 8 . the young gamera you see through the rest of the film looks like a pokemon . big - eyed and cute ... it will remind you of the baby godzilla from godzilla vs mechagodzilla 2 . gamera is now too cute . 7 . this movie has the pace of watching a nascar race during a 3 hour rain delay . i watched this movie with 2 other gamera fans and nobody was happy with how slowly this film moved along . i 've seen an suv full of fat people going up a mountain road move faster . 6 . like godzilla : final wars , this movie had very little kaiju time on screen . final wars had much more , actually , and better fights although short . 5 . kids take the title role . the friend of all children theme and poor writing killed the original gamera series in the 1970 's and history repeats itself in the 2000 's . the most successful gamera films abandoned the sesame street feel and went to a darker place . why go back to a failed formula ? this was to be a new trilogy and poor ticket sales killed any hope for this story to continue ( thank god ) . 4 . gamera lost his iconic roar . he now sounds like an elephant with strep throat . 3 . this movie may produce a new olympic event ..... imagine a relay race that involves sending very young children into harm 's way . you have to see the ending to understand this point . where were the parents ? oh yea .. right there sending their kids into a kaiju battle zone . 2 . the special effects were good , but sub - par for a gamera movie . legion and iris had better effects . the best effect was showing the apple sized baby gamera fly . not too impressive . 1 . this movie is just not what adult kaiju fans come to expect . the director was involved in power rangers and it shows . it comes off like a cross between et , always : sunset on third street and tmnt . kudos if you know all 3 references . rental at best or watch once if you buy it to complete the dvd series .
neg	 " quest for camelot " is warner bros . ' first feature-length , fully-animated attempt to steal clout from disney's cartoon empire , but the mouse has no reason to be worried .  the only other recent challenger to their throne was last fall's promising , if flawed , 20th century fox production " anastasia , " but disney's " hercules , " with its lively cast and colorful palate , had her beat hands-down when it came time to crown 1997's best piece of animation .  this year , it's no contest , as " quest for camelot " is pretty much dead on arrival .  even the magic kingdom at its most mediocre -- that'd be " pocahontas " for those of you keeping score -- isn't nearly as dull as this .  the story revolves around the adventures of free-spirited kayley ( voiced by jessalyn gilsig ) , the early-teen daughter of a belated knight from king arthur's round table .  kayley's only dream is to follow in her father's footsteps , and she gets her chance when evil warlord ruber ( gary oldman ) , an ex-round table member-gone-bad , steals arthur's magical sword excalibur and accidentally loses it in a dangerous , booby-trapped forest .  with the help of hunky , blind timberland-dweller garrett ( carey elwes ) and a two-headed dragon ( eric idle and don rickles ) that's always arguing with itself , kayley just might be able to break the medieval sexist mold and prove her worth as a fighter on arthur's side .   " quest for camelot " is missing pure showmanship , an essential element if it's ever expected to climb to the high ranks of disney .  there's nothing here that differentiates " quest " from something you'd see on any given saturday morning cartoon -- subpar animation , instantly forgettable songs , poorly-integrated computerized footage .   ( compare kayley and garrett's run-in with the angry ogre to herc's battle with the hydra .  i rest my case . )  even the characters stink -- none of them are remotely interesting , so much that the film becomes a race to see which one can out-bland the others .  in the end , it's a tie -- they all win .  that dragon's comedy shtick is awfully cloying , but at least it shows signs of a pulse .  at least fans of the early-'90s tgif television line-up will be thrilled to find jaleel " urkel " white and bronson " balki " pinchot sharing the same footage .  a few scenes are nicely realized ( though i'm at a loss to recall enough to be specific ) , and the actors providing the voice talent are enthusiastic ( though most are paired up with singers who don't sound a thing like them for their big musical moments -- jane seymour and celine dion ? ? ? ) .  but one must strain through too much of this mess to find the good .  aside from the fact that children will probably be as bored watching this as adults , " quest for camelot " 's most grievous error is its complete lack of personality .  and personality , we learn from this mess , goes a very long way .  
pos	this enthralling documentary . . . is at once playful and haunting , an in-depth portrait of an iconoclastic artist who was fundamentally unknowable even to his closest friends . 
neg	 . . . built on the premise that middle-class arkansas consists of monster truck-loving good ol' boys and peroxide blond honeys whose worldly knowledge comes from tv reruns and supermarket tabloids . 
neg	a close-to-solid espionage thriller with the misfortune of being released a few decades too late . 
pos	michael moore has perfected the art of highly entertaining , self-aggrandizing , politically motivated documentary-making , and he's got as potent a topic as ever here . 
pos	the urban landscapes are detailed down to the signs on the kiosks , and the color palette , with lots of somber blues and pinks , is dreamy and evocative . 
pos	though mama takes a bit too long to find its rhythm and a third-act plot development is somewhat melodramatic , its ribald humor and touching nostalgia are sure to please anyone in search of a jules and jim for the new millennium . 
pos	just another fish-out-of-water story that barely stays afloat . 
neg	the sheer dumbness of the plot ( other than its one good idea ) and the movie's inescapable air of sleaziness get you down . 
pos	the film has a kind of hard , cold effect . 
pos	though this film can be clumsy , its ambitions are equally -- and admirably -- uncommercial . 
neg	it might not be 1970s animation , but everything else about it is straight from the saturday morning cartoons  a retread story , bad writing , and the same old silliness . 
pos	one of [jaglom's] better efforts -- a wry and sometime bitter movie about love . 
pos	i was literally preparing to hate this movie , so believe me when i say this film is worth seeing . overall , the story and gags are contrived , but the film has the charm and finesse to pull them off . that gag where jason lee thinks he has crabs , and tries not to let his boss / future father - in - law and co - workers see him scratching himself is n't terribly intelligent , but it sent me into a frenzy of laughter . very few of the film 's gags are high - brow , but they made me laugh . as i said , the film has charm and charm can go a long way .   the characters are likable , too . i must say i wish i got to see more of james brolin 's character , since he was a hoot in the very few scenes he was in . plus , i admire any romantic comedy that has the guts to not make the character of the wife ( who serves as the obstacle in the plot ) a total witch . the selma blair character is hardly unlikable , and there 's never a scene where i thought to myself , " why did he want to marry her in the first place ? " the ending is hollywood - ish , but it could 've been much more schmaltzy .   the cast is talented . i have n't had a favorable view of most of jason lee 's mainstream work . i just loved him so much in kevin smith 's films that i could n't help but feel disappointed at seeing him in these dopey roles . and he never looks comfortable in these dopey roles . even in this movie , he does n't look perfectly comfortable , but he contributes his own two cents and effectively handles each scene . but i still miss his work in independent films . julia stiles proves again why she 's so damn likable . of course , she 's a very beautiful girl with a radiant smile that makes me want to faint , but she also possesses a unique charm and seems to have good personality . in other words , her beauty shows inside and out . i do n't know the actresses ' name , but the woman who plays the drunk granny is hilarious . julie hagerty also has a small part , and she 's always enjoyable to watch , which makes me wish she received better roles . i loved her so much in " airplane " and " lost in america " that it 's a shame she does n't get the same opportunities to flaunt her skills .   do n't be put off by the horrible trailers and even more horrible box office records . this is a funny , charming film . romantic comedies are getting so predictable nowadays that it feels like the genre itself is ready to be flushed down the toilet , so it 's always to see a good one among all these bad apples .   my score : 7 ( out of 10 )
neg	the director's twitchy sketchbook style and adroit perspective shifts grow wearisome amid leaden pacing and indifferent craftsmanship ( most notably wretched sound design ) . 
pos	it lets you brush up against the humanity of a psycho , without making him any less psycho . 
neg	blue crush has all the trappings of an energetic , extreme-sports adventure , but ends up more of a creaky " pretty woman " retread , with the emphasis on self-empowering schmaltz and big-wave surfing that gives pic its title an afterthought . 
pos	a thoroughly enjoyable , heartfelt coming-of-age comedy . 
neg	i looked at the " internet movie database " 's awards section for this film , and found that this was nominated for a golden globe for " best picture ( drama ) . "  anyone who's seen this film can back me up on this : this is the worst of the " great " disaster films , and that's not really saying a lot for this film .   " earthquake " is basically notable because it originally included some theatre thing where the theatre shook when the big earthquake occured .  on video , it's a bland and slow-moving film which gives us a bunch of different characters ( the disaster film requisite ) , then brings them together in the struggle against the big disaster .  while this worked in , say , " the towering inferno , " it doesn't here for one single reason : we don't care about any of the characters .  the film gives us charlton heston ( in one of many crap 70s films he made , including " skyjacked " and that classic , " soylent green " ) as a rich man married to ava gardner , who is having a little affair with a young single mom ( genieveve bujold ) ; a renegade police officer on suspension ( george kennedy , in his least humored performance ) ; in the second weirdest subplot , a motorcycle stuntman ( richard roundtree , right after his " shaft " thing ) whose big stunt is he goes on a little track that goes upside down ( yea , snore ) ; and the weirdest subplot : a military man/bag boy at a grocery store who has a little thing for buxom victoria principal , and eventually gets vengeance on those guys who made fun of his hair ( ! ! ! ) .  in smaller subplots , there's a pointless bit about people who are flying over l . a . ( the city in the film , by the way ) , one who's playing cards and married to a boring non-acting husband ( you think this one can go nowhere ?  guess again . he gets interested in the final frames ) ; there's genieveve bujold's moron son , who has a little adventure with wires ; and for some much-needed comedy , there's walter matthau ( billed as walter mutha . . . .  - the only laugh in the film ) , as a wild drunkard , who's big moment is a dance he does at a critical time .  as for the actual " earthquake , " it's rather a let-down .  there's a full hour of character-setups , none of which is interesting , then about 10 minutes of shaking , crumbling , and a bit where a house almost falls on bujold ( narrowly missing ) .  this film needed that whole theatre-shaking : they needed to wake everybody up because they were so bored .  there's little suspense following the quake , although this film tries for it .  there's an adventure in a crumbling high-rise office building , the wires with the kid , and the movement of people who are all injured .  but none of these are all-too suspenseful .  the finale with the heston/gardner/bujold love triangle is ended in a basic flip-of-the-coin bit , which brings out a big let-down .  and there's no real finale .  even " volcano " ended nicely , and that movie really sucked .  not only is it hokey , but you don't care about any character .  who cares if heston dies ?  who cares if he choses bujold or gardner ( although i would have chosen gardner , mainly on the basis that she can actually act ) ?  who cares if richard roundtree makes money on his stupid " stunt ? "  who cares if that idiot kid falls to his death on some wires ?  and who cares about that whole plane spiel ?  if anything , " earthquake " is worth a viewing for the same reason " glen or glenda ? "  is .  i mean , i laughed at this more than i did at " bio dome . "  but that's another story ( and review ) .  in short , " earthquake " gives disaster pics a bad name .  
neg	 . . . turns so unforgivably trite in its last 10 minutes that anyone without a fortified sweet tooth will likely go into sugar shock . 
pos	heartwarming and gently comic even as the film breaks your heart . 
pos	there's none of the happily-ever -after spangle of monsoon wedding in late marriage -- and that's part of what makes dover kosashvili's outstanding feature debut so potent . 
pos	morton is , as usual , brilliant . 
neg	disjointed parody . 
neg	the catch phrase for disney's rocket man is one spoken by fred z . randall ( harland williams ) , the bumbling idiot computer programmer turned astronaut who continuously wreaks havoc everywhere he goes .   " it wasn't me ! " he proclaims over and over as the aftermath of his stupidity brings about looks of disgust from the others .  well when it comes to this movie being as horrible as it is , williams can't take all the blame , but he sure can't justify himself with his own simple tag line either .  fred has dreamed of space travel since he was a young boy , turning the clothes dryer into a mock space shuttle and staring out wide-eyed at a poster of the earth .  as a 30-year-old , fred hasn't grown up much , but at least he's somewhat closer to his goal , now designing astronaut software for nasa .  when an astronaut for an upcoming mission to mars becomes injured , nasa calls on the person who knows the programming inside and out to fill the void .   .   .  fred .  yes , although he's an obviously klutzy moron , nasa doesn't think twice about throwing him into a rigorous training program so he can assist one of the most important events the space program , and time itself , has ever known .  for the first part of the film , we watch as fred takes on the training program much like an amusement park . he laughs , he screams , but he never once breaks a sweat or views the preparation as anything more than child's play .  his passive approach to the program eventually leads to many record-breaking feats , much to the dismay of cocky counterpart , mission commander captain overbeck ( william sadler ) , who once held the records .  overbeck will regretfully accompany fred and two others to the red planet , one being astronaut julie ford ( the stupids' jessica lundy ) , and the other being a chimpanzee who is much more civilized than our antagonizing protagonist .  from here on out , we are subjected to one lame gag after another , dealing with snot , laxatives , and flatulence .  you know , standard kid movie material .  almost sounding like a poor james stewart impressionist , williams is awful in his first starring role .  we get the feeling that if jerry lewis and pee-wee herman were related and produced an inbred offspring , williams would be it .  while he's not as annoying as other actors who cater to zany , stupid comedy , he's just as unlikeable .  to say it more understandably , jim carrey might annoy you more , but this guy is even less funny .  why ?  because while he possesses the stupidness needed to pull off such a role , his performance is too understated and boring .  classic comedic dunces were generally oblivious to their own idiocy .  stan laurel , for example , was so innocent in all his trouble-making that we were immediately fond of him .  peter sellers , as inspector clouseau , was so self-assured and confident that when he did something as simple as trip , it was humor at it's best .  williams , on the other hand , can't garner the pity he needs to make us love him in all his anti-glory .  as for the rest of the cast , including some bigger names in smaller roles ( beau bridges and shelley duvall ) , nobody is worth watching whatsoever .  this is just another example of the fast-food equivalent of cinema : mass-produced , less than mediocre , over priced , and hard to stomach .  giving it one-and-a-half stars is * extremely * generous , but even i'll admit to laughing a few times .  the amazing thing is that even in a theater packed with little kids , laughter was something rarely heard - even from the children !  i must admit that it gave me more respect for the kids when they didn't crack up over every little thing .  then again , maybe they were asleep .  some people might think critics are harsh on kid movies , claiming adults aren't the targeted audience and therefore aren't meant to , and won't , enjoy them .  sadly , it's also true that kids will enjoy almost anything if it's presented right .  a two-hour still shot of a dog with a cartoonish voice over could entertain a lot of toddlers out there , but would that make it as artistic as beauty and the beast , which could easily do the same thing ?  and saying that a parent's perspective isn't important is quite a poor theory to have when they're the ones who take the kids to these films in the first place .  
neg	i happen to have bought one of those " legacy of horror " 50 movie pack collections and would you believe i 'm still looking through them to find a good horror movie in it . sometimes you find an enjoyable yet campy one like the devil 's messenger or the devil bat , or one of the great alfred hitchcock 's films ( some are n't horror however and are only on there because hitchcock directed some horrors and suspense ) but other times it seems that they put movies like the island monster and this on because they ca n't accept the fact they would easily be forgotten and should be for that matter . so we open up to sort of a westing game idea . the rich yet cruel and abusive father played by carradine ( the one standing feature of this ) has died and left his inheritance to his children and servants who he still hates . carradine gives a good enough performance as always , but he 's left mainly in a voice recording and flashback sequences leaving us to sit through the mediocre / terrible performances . the rest of the cast either overacts or underacts in scenes . given this was an independent film of the 70 's the lighting and effects are pretty limited . it 's hard to build a lot of tension when the viewer ca n't see what 's happening that well in some scenes . some actors like the servants igor and elga give an effort at least and i 'm ashamed to admit kind of left me chuckling at the end mainly for the sheer stupidity but still with some very minor happiness that they pulled some version of a twist to an otherwise pretty obvious who - done - it but not enough to enhance the quality of the film . you are n't meant to like the characters as they are either selfish and cruel or psychotic , but it takes it to a whole new level and makes many unwatchable . the death scenes are pretty bad and the suspense is not really there . it proves that you would probably enjoy the 20 movie pack " chilling " containing films like house on a haunted hill , little shop of horror 's with jack nicholson , and night of the living dead over it . this is best avoided .
pos	if signs is a good film , and it is , the essence of a great one is in there somewhere . 
neg	an eccentric little comic/thriller deeply in love with its own quirky personality . 
neg	occasionally loud and offensive , but more often , it simply lulls you into a gentle waking coma . 
pos	the biggest problem with this movie is that it's not nearly long enough . 
pos	one of the greatest romantic comedies of the past decade . 
pos	an intimate contemplation of two marvelously messy lives . 
neg	skillful as he is , mr . shyamalan is undone by his pretensions . 
neg	sam mendes has become valedictorian at the school for soft landings and easy ways out . 
pos	i think a great many viewers missed entirely the fact that this is obviously a parody of western films . this is not a bad movie - it is a clever tongue in cheek take on westerns . i do n't believe this film was taking itself seriously for a moment . what makes this film even more unique is the fact it is centered around 4 strong , beautiful women , two of which are black , one asian , and a mexican / hispanic character . these are n't your usual western women -- they're tough -- they can draw fast and shoot straight . they 're so tough even the bartender is shaking when he pours their whiskey . the plot which moves this story along is typical of westerns -- in the vein of " you shot my brother -- so i 'm gon na get you ! " only in this western , a woman 's sister has been shot and she 's out for vengeance on the gang who did it . so she goes and rounds up her old cronies from her bank robbing days . one of them , maria , is not really all that interested in avenging rachel 's sister , but she is motived by the fact there 's gold and jewelry hidden in the town where they 're headed . there are a couple of scenes that do n't quite make sense , not that they interfere that much , they can be ignored , but i wondered why they were there . so the film could use a little tightening , but over all , this is a well made film that has failed to find an audience that recognized what it is . my only disappointment was that the only lesbian in the film is a villain -- of the " heroines " , one is obviously straight , the others sexual orientations are never disclosed . 7 stars
pos	dazzles with its fully-written characters , its determined stylishness ( which always relates to characters and story ) and johnny dankworth's best soundtrack in years . 
neg	after collateral damage , you might imagine that most every aggrieved father cliché has been unturned . but no . 
pos	a moody , multi-dimensional love story and sci-fi mystery , solaris is a thought-provoking , haunting film that allows the seeds of the imagination to germinate . 
neg	an overstylized , puréed mélange of sex , psychology , drugs and philosophy . sometimes entertaining , sometimes indulgent -- but never less than pure wankery . 
neg	weaves a spell over you , with its disturbingly close-up look at damaged psyches and its subtle undercurrents of danger . but its awkward structure keeps breaking the spell . 
pos	a moving essay about the specter of death , especially suicide . 
pos	 . . . a cute and sometimes side-splittingly funny blend of legally blonde and drop dead gorgeous , starring piper perabo in what could be her breakthrough role . 
pos	a minor work yet there's no denying the potency of miller's strange , fleeting brew of hopeful perseverance and hopeless closure . 
pos	warning : if you actually wish to see the film , stop reading this and see it .  while i don't blow any plot details , the more you know about a movie , the more disappointing and built up it becomes ( waiting a month to see titanic did the same thing ) .  but , in a nutshell , it's a good film .  star wars episode i : the phantom menace reviewed by vince yim  never having been the biggest star wars fanatic in the world ( i was more into star trek : the next generation ) , it is difficult to relate to the mass fandom surrounding the latest installment , the phantom menace .  however , it can't be ignored .  endless toys lining the shelves , endless news reports , and a multi-billion dollar advertising campaign makes it all the more difficult .  with the level of this hype , one would recall an overhyped disaster from 1998 , godzilla , which definitely failed to live up to expectations .  thankfully , the phantom menace does much , much better .  while the " first " star wars trilogy told the story of jedi knight luke skywalker , the prequels backpedal to tell the back-story of obi wan kenobi and a young jedi named anakin skywalker ( who would become the father of luke and eventually become darth vader ) .  without blowing too much of the story , the phantom menace evolves around a peaceful planet naboo , which is being held hostage by a greedy trade federation , and it's up to two jedi knights ( qui-gon ji , played by liam neeson and obi-wan kenobi , played by ewan mcgreggor ) to free it .  the phantom menace has taken a literal beating from various film critics , leaving me to lower my expectations somewhat .  common complaints range from lack of characterization , weak narrative , poor direction of actors , the dated style , and too much focus over special effects .  still , film critics often apply much historical theory in regards to film criticism , much of which the average film buff does not care for .  hence , this film is a lot of fun and definitely an improvement over the previous films ( even with the " improvements " in the special editions ) .  there are many memorable sequences throughout the film , ranging from the fast and furious " pod race " sequence ( which is a take on the chariot races in " ben hur " ) and the many fight scenes involving legions of battle droids .  utilizing technology that is light years beyond anything made before , special effects and computers are used to create everything from monsters to robots to amazing cityscapes with incredible detail .  no matter how many times you watch this film , you will catch something new .  the level of humour is a bit higher than the previous films as well , mostly conveyed through the reluctant hero jar jar binks , who belongs to a race known as the gungans .  best described as an mr . bean from the planet naboo , he steals the show .  unfortunately , being that he is a computer-generated character , tells a bit about the direction of the actors ( although natalie portman as the queen is pretty effective , as is jake lloyd as the young anakin skywalker ) .  with star wars mania at an all time high , there is the risk that the film will disappoint ( i myself had my doubts ) , which this film does have a tendency to do at times .  there are a few logic problems with the plot , several things are left unchecked , and at times seems to be made only for diehard star wars fans ( although the appearance of the tusken raiders makes for more than a few laughs ) .  that , and young anakin skywalker is a really annoying character , coming off as a smarmy , arrogant brat ( with such an attitude , it's no wonder why he turns to the dark side ) .  still , it seems that many people , especially critics , are missing the point .  the film is some of the most fun 2 and a half hours that you'll blow in your life , which is something i wouldn't mind doing again .  while it may not have the psychological impact of an academy award contender , who really cares ?  the film is pure fun from beginning to end .  and isn't that what really matters ?  
neg	a mixed bag of a comedy that can't really be described as out of this world . 
neg	disappointing in comparison to other recent war moviesor any other john woo flick for that matter . 
pos	[haynes'] homage to such films as " all that heaven allows " and " imitation of life " transcends them . simply put , " far from heaven " is a masterpiece . 
neg	schindler's list it ain't . 
pos	a huge box-office hit in korea , shiri is a must for genre fans . 
pos	in visual fertility treasure planet rivals the top japanese animations of recent vintage . 
neg	it's so tedious that it makes you forgive every fake , dishonest , entertaining and , ultimately , more perceptive moment in bridget jones's diary . 
pos	if you can tolerate the redneck-versus-blueblood cliches that the film trades in , sweet home alabama is diverting in the manner of jeff foxworthy's stand-up act . 
pos	a graceful , moving tribute to the courage of new york's finest and a nicely understated expression of the grief shared by the nation at their sacrifice . 
neg	american chai encourages rueful laughter at stereotypes only an indian-american would recognize . and the lesson , in the end , is nothing new . 
neg	porter stoddard ( warren beatty ) is a successful architect married to successful fabric designer ellie ( diane keaton ) for twenty-five years .  they and best friends mona ( goldie hawn ) and griffin ( garry shandling ) are about to face marital crises in a film most well known for its torturous path to the screen , " town and country . "   " town and country " has a pedigree befitting it's title with an all star cast photographed by oscar nominated cinematographer william fraker and mouthing the words of screenwriter buck henry ( " the graduate " ) under the direction of peter chelsom ( " funny bones " ) .  after years of reports of budget overruns and reshoots and the racking up twelve different release dates , the media has been prepped for beatty's next " ishtar . "  so , is it that bad ?  the answer is no .  but it's not very good either .  the major problem with " town and country " is that it's unstructured and random .  stoddard is immediately established as a philanderer , having just bedded a flaky cellist ( nastassja kinski ) .  next scene finds him and ellie celebrating their anniversary in paris with mona and griffin .  then mona spies griffin hustling a redhead into a motel and begins divorce proceedings ( buck henry cameos as both couples' divorce lawyer ) .  ellie thinks she's overeacting , but sends porter to support mona on a trip to check out her family's mississippi manse .  the two childhood friends end up in bed together , making us wonder why they'd never become a couple to begin with .  back home , their second coupling is interrupted by ellie bursting in to tell mona she thinks porter's cheating on her .  porter goes off on a trip with griffin to sun valley , idaho to have more comic misadventures with wacky women as griffin attempts to tell him that he's gay .  the four friends , along with every woman porter's dallied with , all end up back in new york city somewhat happily ever after .  although the film begins promisingly , resembling a woody allen take on new york city wasps , too many strands drift off into nowhere .  the stoddard household is huge , containing two adult children ( josh hartnett , " the virgin suicides " and tricia vessey , " kiss the girls " ) , their colorful bedmates and a maid who's just imported her shirtless boyfriend from the rainforest back home .  after an amusing early scene that has porter overhearing three bouts of lovemaking while in search of a nocturnal snack , the six supporting players are dropped except for an out-of-nowhere appearance by the formerly forgotten son .  porter's romantic misadventures with women ( other than mona ) are equally mishandled .  once the marital discord begins , the film seems as if it was editted with a machete , stopping and starting , never regaining its rhythm .  while beatty gets off a few tart observations , his character is mostly passive and bemused .  maybe we're supposed to feel sympathy for an adulterer who doesn't initiate his own sex romps ?  keaton's ellie has a trusting nature that's a result of her own self involvement resulting in an unlikeable character .  hawn smartly recycles her mature sex kitten wives of " the out of towners " and " the first wives' club " while shandling's relegated to true second banana status .  kinski is bland and unmotivated .  andie macdowell takes a weirdly unappealing role and does what she can with the screenplay's most bizarre subplot , which finds charlton heston as her rifle toting , billionaire daddy and marian seldes as her alcoholic , wheelchair-bound , foul-mouthed mother .  heston and seldes are fun , as is jenna elfman as a sun valley bait and tackle salesgirl who brings porter and griffin to a halloween party .  oscar nominatored cinematographer william fraker gives the film a nice look , but director chelsom shows none of the quirkily and blackly humorous depth he brought to films like " hear my song " and " funny bones . "  the script is this film's weakest link - it's telling that most of the ( few ) laughs come from old-fashioned physical slapstick and the sight of beatty in a bear suit .  while " town and country " isn't exactly painful to sit through , it mostly just lays there .  
pos	it was a crazy time in france , what with the french revolution right around the corner .  king louis xv would soon die , and his son would become king louis xvi .  such is the setting for beaumarchais : the scoundrel about the controversial playwright , spy and playboy pierre-augustin caron de beaumarchais .  beaumarchais was the author of the plays , " the barber of seville " and " the marriage of figaro . "  today people think of them as quaint and harmless operas , but , back in 1773 when the movie takes place , they were so scandalous that beaumarchais was thrown into prison more than once .  the movie beaumarchais : the scoundrel takes a light-hearted approach to its subject , resulting in an inviting motion picture .  one of france's most expensive productions ever , the movie was a huge hit when it opened there last year .  now in theatrical release in the united states , it eschews the seriousness of most art house films with a romping good story .  the secret of the film's success , other than the lavishness of sylvie de segonzac's costumes , has to be the performance by fabrice luchini as beaumarchais .  with his glistening eyes and his infectious smile , he mesmerizes the camera and the audience .  his wry little lips seem always to hint at some unspoken deviousness he is planning .  in a land where court intrigue determines one's destiny , constant scheming was a way of life for the aristocracy .  as our story starts , we learn that beaumarchais has bought himself a judgeship .  into his court comes a member of the nobility demanding an immediate sword fight .  beaumarchais , who has been having an affair with the man's wife , makes him wait until the current case on the docket is decided .  that over with , the fight is on .  with luchini's charisma , it is hard to root for anyone other than him .  audiences may remember him from the marvelous colonel chabert , in which he played the attorney .  although he does not have half of the good looks of his assistant gudin , played by manuel blanc , he dazzles the women and the viewers with his grace and style .  michael epp's warm and intimate cinematography provides a nice accompaniment to jean-marc kerdelhue's lush but realistic looking sets .  jean-claude petit's music , especially the hauntingly lovely flute solos , make for an enchanting time at the movies .  director jean-claude brisville , who wrote the script along with edouard molinaro , fleshed out a play by sacha guitry which , according to the press notes , was just a series of historic vignettes .  the disorganization of the play still comes through at some points in the movie , but the actors smooth it over with their good-hearted style .  typical of the scenes that come out of nowhere is the one in which a rotund benjamin franklin appears in a large pot of hot water , taking his bath .  one episode has beaumarchais working with a renegade spy who may or may not be a man .  another has beaumarchais using his personal fortune to aid the american revolution .  all of this may sound like a dull historical drama , but it is anything but .  the story plays more like theater of the absurd than a movie based on historical facts .  the radiantly lovely sandrine kiberlain plays marie-therese , the real love of beaumarchais's life .  but he is so likable that members of the audience may want to compete with her for him .  still , with his beguiling smile , one can never quite be sure if you should trust him .  the movie , on the other hand , can be trusted to deliver a high old time .  beaumarchais : the scoundrel runs 1 : 41 .  it is in french with english subtitles .  the film is not rated but would be an r for some nudity and sex , and should be fine for most teenagers .  
neg	once she lets her love depraved leads meet , [denis'] story becomes a hopeless , unsatisfying muddle
pos	while this movie is n't a classic by any stretch , it is very entertaining as i remember it . i saw it about 15 years ago on hbo and loved the movie . it was written by the same guy that wrote and directed " arthur " and though it is n't as funny as that movie , it does show the potential that steve gordon reached with " arthur " .
neg	the film flat lines when it should peak and is more missed opportunity and trifle than dark , decadent truffle . 
neg	to describe this film as garbage is unfair . at least rooting through garbage can be an absorbing hobby . this flick was neither absorbing nor entertaining . kevin bacon can act superbly given the chance , so no doubt had an irs bill to settle when he agreed to this dire screenplay . the mad scientist story of ' hollow man ' has been told before , been told better , and been told without resorting to so many ludicrously expensive special effects . most of those special effects seem to be built around the transparent anatomical dolls of men , women and dogs you could buy in the early seventies . in the uk they were marketed as ' the transparent man ( /woman / dog ) ' which is maybe where they got the title for this film . clever special effects , dire script , non - existent plot .
neg	one of the more glaring signs of this movie's servitude to its superstar is the way it skirts around any scenes that might have required genuine acting from ms . spears . 
neg	it's at once laughable and compulsively watchable , in its committed dumbness . 
pos	contrary to the title , " the boxer " is not another rocky story only this time spliced with some cold hard politics .  it's actually three movies in one : a political film , a boxing film , and a love story .  all of these work in their own respects and have some pretty decent balancing betwixt the three elements of the story , but somehow it seems kind of cliched and unoriginal .  we've seen it all before , and we're just not blown away with it like we should be .  oh well .  it's still an excellent irish story .   " the boxer " of the title is danny flynn ( jim sheridan staple daniel day-lewis ) , an ex-ira member who gets out of a belfast prison after 14 years , and finds out that his troubles are far from over .  first off , the ira is having a small civil war between its leader joe hamill ( brian cox ) , and one of its sub-leaders , harry ( gerard mcsorley ) , both having opposing views on getting many of their members out of jail .  while this is going on , danny and his old drunkard buddie , ike ( ken stott , who played the chief inspector in danny boyle's " shallow grave " ) , re-open an old gym which allows the two opposing religios sects , protestant and catholics , to work together .  danny not only begins teaching kids how to box , but has stayed in great shape whilst in prison , and is ready to start boxing real people again .  and danny runs into his ex-love , maggie ( " breaking the waves " 's emily watson ) , who hasn't seen him since he went in .  they don't easily start up their romance again because she's the wife of a prisoner whom she married during danny's tenure in prison , and also has a son , liam ( ciaran fitzgerald ) , from him , whom liam is hoping will get out soon .  but the two are slowly re-drawn to eachother again , and this begins to complicate things .  the political story is nothing really special but works in itself .  we've seen it many a time before , but it's at least interesting , sometimes emotional , and even riveting at times .  there's a big riot towards the middle of the film which is frightening in its brutality and honesty .  the boxing story is very minor to the story , but does represent people coming together to fight eachother fairly , and even with good sportsmanship .  there are only a few boxing scenes , but they're never like " raging bull " /let's-strip-down-the-sport-to-its-bones brilliant .  they're more realistic , and instead of bone crunching , we hear the sound of the gloves hitting eachother , which is slightly unerving at times .  and i didn't know daniel day-lewis was in such good shape .  but the backbone of the story is the love one .  because these characters are given such horrible circumstances , and since the two leads have such great chemistry together , we really feel for their plight .  as the film goes on , and circumstances get worse and worse , the characters have to make real human decisions , and we can sympathize with them as humans not characters .  this is how you write a love story - take note , hollywood .  these elements are pretty much equally balanced , with each of the parts of the stories working hand-in-hand with eachother .  i loved how each of the different parts of the plot mattered , and sometimes spilled over into the next .  it made sure that we didn't just care for one of them .  i'm not saying they're all equally great , because the love story really carries the film , but at least they all work out respectively .  the acting is amazing , with day-lewis and watson giving excellent performances and showing great chemistry .  i'm not sure if they're oscar-nominee bound , but they're very good .  in the supporting roles , billy cox is greatly sympathetic as the ira leader losing control of his daughter and his workers .  but the film is stolen acting wise by ken stott as ike , who is just a great scene stealer .  the direction and co-writing by jim sheridan ( with the other co-writing credit going to terry george ) is excellent , rounding out the characters well , but not pacing everything greatly .  i noticed that the first half was very leisurely ( yet fascinating ) , but the second half whirls by at a quick pace , and ends much too quickly .  more time could have been spent thinking up the ending , since it does seem quite sloppy .  though " the boxer " is a good film , it never achieves the greatness that it should .  sure , it's a masterpiece compared to most of the hollywood drivel we usually get , but on it's own , it just could have been better .  but it still works out , gives us a great love story combined with a political and boxing drama , and features great acting .  even if it could have been better , this'll do .  
pos	the word 'rest' in the title should be stressed since this is a movie that lacks any action scenes at all .  what does takes place is more based on character development .  the film starts right in the middle of the lives of four people : nick , beth , carol and sid .  what they have done earlier is for the most part only hinted at .  nick and beth have a relationship and have decided to move from enfield , arizona to butte , montana .   ( and i who thought that butte was pronounced slightly different . . . )  carol is nick's ex-girlfriend and beth's best friend , sid is a joint-smoking painter that comes to repaint their house before the new tenants move in .  obviously based on a stage play , the problem with the movie is that there's a lot of things left out .  it's not obvious that nick and beth are in love with each other , the reason why nick was fired from his job isn't mentioned .  and why nick suddenly decide to go visit his parents remain a mystery , when he hasn't seen them for many years .  set in a small ( fictional ? )  town in arizona was a good move , since this makes the film focus on the four characters and not on their surroundings .  the name of the city is not important , this could take place anywhere with four young people in a house discussing life and the future .  particularly impressive is bridget fonda as beth who end up in bed with sid when her fiance nick leaves her .  not an actress that i have found interesting earlier or seen many pictures with , but i'll keep an eye on her in the future .  interesting trivia : this was rated r in the us but rated 'barntill ? ten' in sweden wich means that anyone at any age can see it .  
pos	the rich performances by friel -- and especially williams , an american actress who becomes fully english -- round out the square edges . 
pos	quitting delivers a sucker-punch , and its impact is all the greater beause director zhang's last film , the cuddly shower , was a non-threatening multi-character piece centered around a public bath house . 
pos	having had the good sense to cast actors who are , generally speaking , adored by the movie-going public , khouri then gets terrific performances from them all . 
neg	the story alone could force you to scratch a hole in your head . 
pos	this is one of the year's best films . 
neg	when considering david fincher's latest film , " the game " , four words come to mind .   " don't believe the hype . "  this michael douglas vehicle , from the director of " seven " , isn't nearly as clever or innovatively suspenseful as it would have us believe .  the film draws us in with an intriguing concept ( aided no doubt by the riveting trailer ) where a jaded millionaire ( douglas ) is presented with the opportunity to enter into a living fantasy .  this isn't simply virtual reality .  this is real life with a deadly twist .  on his 48th birthday , nicholas van orton ( douglas ) is invited to dinner by his underachieving younger brother , conrad ( sean penn ) .  conrad has a special birthday present for his brother .  he hands nicholas a gift certificate and tells him to contact a company called consumer recreation services .   " they make your life fun , " conrad tells him .  nicholas humors his brother , telling him he'll call , but it's clear he has no time for any foolish , " fantasy role-playing , " as he calls it .  then , for reasons that are never really made clear , nicholas decides to go to crs and see what they're all about .  he ends up spending a whole day going through their screening process , which to me made no sense considering the tight schedule he keeps claiming to have .  nevertheless , when it seems nicholas has been rejected as a crs client , the weird things start happening .  of course , when we've only covered about 30 minutes of screen time , what else should we expect .  douglas has built his modern career around playing powerful , violent and unlikable men being manipulated by unseen hands .  one of those films , " basic instinct " , came from the creative minds of writer , joe eszterhas and director , paul verhoeven .  the premise of " the game , " is not unlike the concept of another verhoeven film , " total recall . "  in that case , the premise was implanting someone else's memories as a way to enhance one's own life through a dream vacation .  yet , in both films , the real goal is to create a vicarious bond with the audience .  we live the adventure along with the protagonist , reacting to each twist and turn .  in theory , the key to the suspense is not being to tell what is real and what isn't .  all we can do is hang on until the end of the ride , when the truth is finally revealed .  now , for those of you who forgot , let me say this again .   " don't believe the hype . "   " the game " is not a thrilling roller coaster ride .  as a suspense-thriller , it doesn't do much but spin in circles .  by the third reel , i was fighting back sleep and checking my watch as i endured the predictable plot .  is it any wonder douglas won't be able to resist the charms of a mysterious , potentially life-threatening blonde ( ever heard of glenn close ?  no ? well , how about sharon stone ?  thought so ) .  if anything in this film surprises you at all , i would guess you haven't seen that many films .  there is no suspense here .  trust me , i looked hard to find some .  i had to settle for contrived gimmicks and ridiculously implausible situations .  fincher aim's for hitchcock but lands somewhere just north of joe eszterhas .  there are those that might say " the game " is not intended to be viewed literally .  i would submit that is exactly the way i tried to view the film .  the film simply does not have the teeth to bite into any real psychological issues .  there is a moment early in the film where van orton , realizing his game has begun , smiles as he walks through the airport trying to figure out who's in on the whole thing .  he is charged by his paranoia .  he is looking at the world through new eyes .  it is the last thought-provoking moment in the film .  from there on , the director only wants to stay a step ahead of us .  any significant archetype that is set up in the beginning of the film is simply turned into a plot device .  at the outset , we're told each " game " is tailored to the individual .  ultimately , this " game " is supposed to work like a crucible , trying this obscenely wealthy and emotionally detached aristocrat by fire , proving his soul .  yet , as douglas endures his personal gauntlet , we're given very few pieces of the puzzle to illuminate us on who this man really is .  i wanted to like this film more than i did .  i look at it as just anothergreat idea , poorly realized .  i can think of at least two other superior films where watching the film didn't mean we were seeing what was really happening .  bryan singer's " the usual suspects " for one , a film that was truly unique in its ability to get you lost in the details before pulling back to show you the full masterpiece on the canvas .  also , there is the underrated " jacob's ladder , " with tim robbins , a film that really has to be watched twice before you recognize the significance of all its symbolism .  here are two examples of films that don't simply manipulate for manipulations' sake .  there are films that use their labyrinth structure to lead us to a meaningful place .  one major issue that comes up in " the game " is whether or not the whole " illusion " is just a highly sophisticated con game .  well , i can tell you right now , after you've spent your $7 dollars , you may be asking yourself the same thing .  
pos	it's all a rather shapeless good time . . . 
pos	in 1977 , something never though possible happened .  the film star wars was released , with extraordinary , never seen before techniques of special effects .  the film set a new standard for special effects in film .  not only did it set a standard for the special effects , it set a standard for film itself .  the plot is one of the most creative i heard ever .  the legend of star wars starts long ago with the jedi .  the jedi were warriors who were wiped out by the dark side .  darth vader is the leader of the dark side .  ben obi-wan kenobi , played by sir alec guinness , was one of those jedi who is still alive today .  darth vader was once a jedi , until he turned to the dark side .  years after the killing of the jedi , darth vader is still around causing trouble .  r2-d2 and c-3p0 are both what we call " driods " , or robots that are of assistance to humans .  while an attack on the ship that princess leia , played by carrie fisher , is aboard , she inserts a message to r2-d2 , who is also on the ship .  to obi-wan kenobi pleading for help .  the princess is captured by vader , but r2-d2 and c-3p0 get away on an escape pod that eventually lands them on the remote planet of tatooine .  the jawas , or small creatures who sell droids , pick r2-d2 and c-3p0 up to sell .  they are bought by luke skywalker's ( mark hamill ) family .  while luke is cleaning the droids , the message from princess leia is found .  luke finds this obi-wan kenobi , and learns that obi-wan was a friend of luke's father , who is now dead .  luke also learns his family was a jedi .  after luke's family is killed by tropps from the dark side , ben decides to put luke through training to stop the dark side and destroy them once and for all .  ben wants to create a new jedi .  first , the two must find princess leia and serve her .  han solo , played by harrison ford , and his sidekick chewbacca , played by peter mayhew , are consulted about providing a ship to complete the tasks necessary .  after meeting up with leia , the film really picks up .  luke continues his training as a pilot and to become a jedi , ben kenobi confronts darth vader , and many other interesting events occur .  star wars is an amazing epic .  the plot is so original and amazing , i cannot believe it .  the special effects , especially for its time , are wonderful and realistic .  the space scenes in particular are the most fun to watch .  the ships flown by all are very unique and creative .  the costumes are also out of this world .  the scenery is so different from anything i have ever seen before .  there are a variety of different very memorable set pieces that will stay with me forever .  the entire premise of star wars is amazing .  the creatures and droids that we see throughout the film are one of a kind .  even the human characters are different .  every character is extremely likable and different from characters from other sci fi films .  the acting on everyone's part is great , especially that of sir alec guinness's .  even though the concept is not realistic at all , it is pulled off very nicely .  the acting , setting , effects , costumes , and sound make it work .  if any of these were messed up , star wars would have come off as one huge joke .  the ending works very well , and left it very open to the sequels that came afterward .  in early 1997 , a special edition of star wars was released .  the film was re-mastered so it looked better than it did in 1977 .  a few creatures were added here and there , and even an entire deleted scene with han solo and jabba the hutt ( seen in return of the jedi ) was added to the film .  think that's enough ?  on may 19 , 1999 , star wars episode i : the phantom menace will be released , followed by two more films that will reveal what went on before a new hope .  with this , star wars is bound to become the greatest tale told in our time .  
pos	even during the climactic hourlong cricket match , boredom never takes hold . 
pos	its use of the thriller form to examine the labyrinthine ways in which people's lives cross and change , buffeted by events seemingly out of their control , is intriguing , provocative stuff . 
neg	despite the evocative aesthetics evincing the hollow state of modern love life , the film never percolates beyond a monotonous whine . 
neg	there's a neat twist , subtly rendered , that could have wrapped things up at 80 minutes , but kang tacks on three or four more endings . 
pos	while [roman coppola] scores points for style , he staggers in terms of story . 
pos	the mothman prophecies is best when illustrating the demons bedevilling the modern masculine journey . 
neg	it is movies like these that make a jaded movie viewer thankful for the invention of the timex indiglo watch .  based on the late 1960's television show by the same name , the mod squad tells the tale of three reformed criminals under the employ of the police to go undercover .  however , things go wrong as evidence gets stolen and they are immediately under suspicion .  of course , the ads make it seem like so much more .  quick cuts , cool music , claire dane's nice hair and cute outfits , car chases , stuff blowing up , and the like .  sounds like a cool movie , does it not ?  after the first fifteen minutes , it quickly becomes apparent that it is not .  the mod squad is certainly a slick looking production , complete with nice hair and costumes , but that simply isn't enough .  the film is best described as a cross between an hour-long cop show and a music video , both stretched out into the span of an hour and a half .  and with it comes every single clich ? .  it doesn't really matter that the film is based on a television show , as most of the plot elements have been recycled from everything we've already seen .  the characters and acting is nothing spectacular , sometimes even bordering on wooden .  claire danes and omar epps deliver their lines as if they are bored , which really transfers onto the audience .  the only one to escape relatively unscathed is giovanni ribisi , who plays the resident crazy man , ultimately being the only thing worth watching .  unfortunately , even he's not enough to save this convoluted mess , as all the characters don't do much apart from occupying screen time .  with the young cast , cool clothes , nice hair , and hip soundtrack , it appears that the film is geared towards the teenage mindset .  despite an american 'r' rating ( which the content does not justify ) , the film is way too juvenile for the older mindset .  information on the characters is literally spoon-fed to the audience ( would it be that hard to show us instead of telling us ? ) , dialogue is poorly written , and the plot is extremely predictable .  the way the film progresses , you likely won't even care if the heroes are in any jeopardy , because you'll know they aren't .  basing the show on a 1960's television show that nobody remembers is of questionable wisdom , especially when one considers the target audience and the fact that the number of memorable films based on television shows can be counted on one hand ( even one that's missing a finger or two ) .  the number of times that i checked my watch ( six ) is a clear indication that this film is not one of them .  it is clear that the film is nothing more than an attempt to cash in on the teenage spending dollar , judging from the rash of really awful teen-flicks that we've been seeing as of late .  avoid this film at all costs .  
neg	i walked away not really know who " they " were , what " they " looked like . why " they " were here and what " they " wanted and quite honestly , i didn't care . 
pos	the rock is destined to be the 21st century's new " conan " and that he's going to make a splash even greater than arnold schwarzenegger , jean-claud van damme or steven segal . 
neg	exactly what it claims to be -- a simple diversion for the kids . 
neg	what can i say about this film other than " do n't see it " . i waited and waited and waited for someting ( or anything ) to happen and it just did n't come . watch amazingly as two people walk around while setting the record for most filler screen time in a single movie . what are they doing ? are they solving a mystery ? are they gathering clues ? possibly , it 's just hard to tell . at the end of the movie , after a lot of radio signals are decoded ( illegibly on some sort of pet monitor ) and this guy gives some lectures , the plot is finally revealed and tossed aside as quickly as possible . some aliens want to get back to their home world utopia and are so happy there that they want to blow up the earth ( i guess they do n't like sharing the wealth ) . my guess is they finished filming and saw their 35 minute work or art ( garbage ! ) and decided that they 'd let the editing crew turn it into an 88 minute feature film . watch at your own peril , it 's not even funny because it 's so bad , it 's just bad .
neg	flat , but with a revelatory performance by michelle williams . 
neg	 " the 13th warrior " comes at the end of as summer where we've already experienced man eating sharks ( " deep blue sea " ) , man eating crocodiles ( " lake placid " ) and even a man hunting witch ( " the blair witch project " ) .  now , " the 13th warrior " presents a tribe of flesh eating men who believe that they are bears .  the story , if that's what you want to call it , follows ahmed ibn fahdlan ( antonio banderas ) an arabian poet who falls in love with his king's wife and is banished from his home land .  he then travels to the land of the vikings and becomes an ambassador to them .  eventually the vikings are called upon to protect the people of the village who are being hunted by the flesh eating men .  thirteen warriors are chosen to go on the mission , and as you guessed it , ahmed is chosen as the thirteenth .  he's not a warrior , and at first not well accepted by the vikings , but as the movie advances he'll have to prove himself both on and off the battlefield .  that's basically the entire plot .  there is also a romantic subplot that has been so badly mishandled and , one assumes , drastically cut that you begin to wonder why the filmmakers didn't just edit out all of the scenes attaining to that part of the story .  instead they chose to leave just enough of those scenes in to annoy the viewer .  the film is basically non- stop action and when it pauses and tries to develop a story it becomes a laughing stock .  the battle scenes , although well choreographed , are not involving and not the least bit exciting .  we don't get to know any of the characters and so we don't care who lives and who dies .  the film , which wants to be beowolf , comes across more as a failed action-adventure story aspiring to epic proportions but not achieving it on any levels .  it was directed by john mctiernan who's , " the thomas crown affair " is also playing in theaters currently .  and it's not that mctiernan worked simultaneously on both films but that , " the 13th warrior " was placed on the shelf for so long with the studio just waiting for a time to dump it on audiences .  it belongs back on the shelf .  
pos	i whole-heartedly recommend that everyone see this movie-- for its historical significance alone . 
pos	a byzantine melodrama that stimulates the higher brain functions as well as the libido . 
neg	is it a comedy ? a drama ? a romance ? a cartoon ? 
neg	suffers from rambling , repetitive dialogue and the visual drabness endemic to digital video . 
neg	not only unfunny , but downright repellent . 
neg	never again swings between false sentiment and unfunny madcap comedy and , along the way , expects the audience to invest in the central relationship as some kind of marriage of true minds . 
neg	on the whole , the movie lacks wit , feeling and believability to compensate for its incessant coarseness and banality . 
pos	it's a movie -- and an album -- you won't want to miss . 
neg	the second attempt by a new york intellectual in less than 10 years to make a " swedish " film - the first being susan sontag 's " brother carl " ( which was made in sweden , with swedish actors , no less ! ) the results ? oscar wilde said it best , in reference to dickens ' " the old curiosity shop " : " one would have to have a heart of stone not to laugh out loud at the death of little nell . " pretty much the same thing here . " interiors " is chock full of solemnly intoned howlers . ( " i 'm afraid of my anger . " looking into the middle distance : " i do n't like who i 'm becoming . " ) the directorial quotations ( to use a polite term ) from bergman are close to parody . the incredibly self - involved family keep reminding us of how brilliant and talented they are , to the point of strangulation . ( " i read a poem of yours the other day . it was in - i do n't know - the new yorker . " " oh . that was an old poem . i reworked it . " ) far from not caring about these people , however , i found them quite hilarious . much of the dialog is exactly like the funny stuff from allen 's earlier films - only he 's directed his actors to play the lines straight . having not cast himself in the movie , he has poor mary beth hurt copy all of his thespian tics , intonations , and neurotic habits , turning her into an embarrassing surrogate ( much like kenneth branagh in " celebrity " ) . the basic plot - dysfunctional family with quietly domineering mother - seems to be lifted more or less from bergman 's " winter light , " the basic family melodrama tricked up with a lot of existential angst . it all comes through in the shopworn visual / aural tricks : the deafening scratching of a pencil on paper , the towering surf that dwarfs the people walking on the beach . etc , etc . allen 's later " serious " films are less embarrassing , but also far less entertaining . i 'll take " interiors . " woody 's rarely made a funnier movie .
neg	the action here is unusually tame , the characters are too simplistic to maintain interest , and the plot offers few surprises . 
pos	fuller would surely have called this gutsy and at times exhilarating movie a great yarn . 
neg	an overstuffed compendium of teen-catholic-movie dogma . 
neg	beers , who , when she's given the right lines , can charm the paint off the wall . . . [but] the script goes wrong at several key junctures . 
pos	it takes this never-ending confusion and hatred , puts a human face on it , evokes shame among all who are party to it and even promotes understanding . 
pos	 . . . as the story congeals you feel the pieces of the star wars saga falling into place in a way that makes your spine tingle with revelation and excitement . 
neg	if they broke out into elaborate choreography , singing and finger snapping it might have held my attention , but as it stands i kept looking for the last exit from brooklyn . 
pos	brutal , emotionless michael myers stabs his sister to death at age six on halloween night in 1963 ; on october 30 , 1978 , he escapes from a mental institution and institutes a new reign of terror in his hometown of haddonfield , illinois . he is pursued the whole time by a psychiatrist ( donald pleasence ) who knows just how evil this young man is . it opens with a bang , and sets up a genuinely suspenseful and atmospheric chiller that is actually superior to the many slasher pictures it helped to inspire . it 's subtle compared to the nasty bloodbaths many of those subsequent movies were ; subtle , and scary . it retains the ability to make me jump even after repeated viewings . how many movies are there , really , that can continue to be frightening even after one has seen them before ? not very many . pleasence is great in what was probably the definitive role of his career ; jamie lee curtis , in her motion picture debut , became a bona fide scream queen after acting in " halloween " as well as a few subsequent slasher pictures , and she is an intended victim worth rooting for . co - writer / director john carpenter knows what works in this movie , making excellent use of shadows and dark skies ; notice how most of the movie is set after nightfall . with this picture , he and his former collaborator debra hill created a franchise that has spawned seven sequels , many imitators , and an upcoming " re - imagining " . it 's very quotable - who could ever forget dr. loomis ' ( pleasence ) speech in which he describes michael myers to the sheriff ( charles cyphers , a reliable repertory player in several of carpenter 's earlier works ) ? it 's fantastic , and worth seeking out . this is my favorite john carpenter movie of all time . it 's not totally infallible - there are script holes , after all - but overall it makes a solid impact . 9/10
neg	will probably be one of those movies barely registering a blip on the radar screen of 2002 . 
neg	there is only so much baked cardboard i need to chew . 
neg	poster boy for co-dependency needs patching  patch adams a film review by michael redman copyright 1999 by michael redman  mediocrity is a pox on civilization .  in our heavily consumer oriented society , there is an enormous demand to churn out " stuff . "  what would happen to our economy if we didn't feel the need to have more things ?  to make us buy more , businesses need to produce a ton of product .  the sheer volume of items necessitates that most of them are of dubious quality .  the film industry is like any other .  in order for studios to survive , they have to make money .  the prevailing attitude is that more films equal more profit .  some movies obviously exist only to put wares on the screen and to do that , less talented people are used .  there aren't enough great directors and actors to create the number of films necessary .  for some reason , it's never crossed anyone's mind that the real equation is quality films = more profit .  often , mediocre films are more of a pain for the audience than the horrendous ones .  at you can have a good time making fun of bad movies .  i'm not suggesting that " patch adams " was tossed out just to rake in the bucks .  my guess is that someone was asleep at the wheel .  it features an accomplished actor and a potentially engrossing story , but it's as dull as could be .  hunter " patch " adams' ( robin williams ) desire to become a doctor has an unusual genesis .  checking himself into a mental institute after a suicide attempt , he discovers that he can help the other patients by clowning around .  patch could be a poster boy for co-dependency .  he explains that he likes devoting himself to others because then he doesn't focus on his own problems .  he decides that he wants to be a physician , leaves the place and a couple of years later enrolls in the medical college of virginia .  as a med student , patch's antics at the school's hospital catch the attention of his soon to be arch-enemy , straight-laced dean walcott ( bob gunton ) .  the dean is so opposed to the goofiness that he wants patch kicked out of school although he's one of the top students .  he writes in patch's academic file that he shows " excessive happiness . "  i walked into the film knowing little about its history and wondered about its odd mechanical pacing .  there also seemed to be no reason that it is set in the early seventies .  then it struck me .  it must be based on a true story .  the movie is an adaptation of a book by hunter adams who founded the gesundheit institute , a free clinic .  robin williams is an amazing actor .  while he is adept at dramatic roles , his forte is over-the-top free spirits .  that's what makes his failure here so remarkable .  patch is exactly the character he should be best at , yet even the scene where he and another mental patient are battling fierce imaginary squirrels falls flat .  something holds him back .  most of the rest of the cast is two-dimensional .  for a film that champions seeing patients as human beings , it's curious that the ones here are cardboard characters .  peter coyote as a man dying of cancer is refreshing because he seems like a real person .  unfortunately he's in the film for only about two minutes .  the audience is blatantly lead by a ring in its nose from scene to scene .  we're not left to our own emotional decisions : we're hit over the head with them .  shaved-headed children with cancer , an elderly woman whom patch makes laugh , a beautiful woman who can't love because of her abusive history .  when a group of students fix up an old house to use as a clinic in the andy hardy " hey , let's put on a play !  we can use the barn and my mom can make the curtains ! "  mode , they laugh and roll around while painting each other .  there might as well be giant signs flashing : " feel good now ! "   " feel bad now ! "   " patch " is a good title for the film .  it is a patchwork of every manipulative scene you can think of .  the full-of-life student fights stodgy establishment types .  there's a touching death .  then there's another .  the film doesn't trust us to get it the first time .  the dean tries to kick patch out and later he tries again .  worst of all is the final courtroom bit .  scary-looking old men sit in judgment of a man who only wants to help people .  the room is packed with patch's supporters .  williams makes a supposedly impassioned speech about the humanity of all .  it has as much emotion as his earlier statement " humans are the only animal that kills members of its own species " contains truth .  most of the blame must be placed with the director tom shadyac and screenwriter steve oedekerk .  shadyac also directed the first " ace ventura " movie .  oedekerk directed the second one .  need i say more ?  the real adams is to be admired for his devotion to treating patients as people rather than diseases .  the film has a number of worthy messages about the state of the modern medical business with hmos and managed care .  the " doctors are not gods " theme will resonate with a number of people , but it's so poorly produced that no one will care .  
pos	on june 30 , 1960 , a self-taught , idealistic , yet pragmatic , young man became , at age 36 , the first head of government of a newly independent african state , formerly the belgian congo .  two months later , he was ousted from his powerful position and hunted by government troops until he was captured and brutally murdered along with two aides .  this little-known story of this meteoric rise and fall is told my international filmmaker raoul peck in " lumumba . "  patrice lumumba's ( eriq ebouaney ) story has been told previously by helmer peck in his 1991 award winning documentary , " lumumba - death of a prophet , " virtually guaranteeing that his new , fictional account of a patriot remains true to its subject .  peck , with co-writer pascal bonitzer , begins at the end of the story of the young political leader .  we watch as two white men perform the gruesome task of dismembering the bodies of three black men .  images of hatchets , saws and fast-emptying whiskey bottles accompany the grisly image .  jump back a few years to a meeting among the black leaders in the belgian-owned congo .  a third class postal worker , lumumba , speaks his mind to heads of the most powerful tribes , proclaiming himself not tribal , not regional , but a national leader .  his small , mobile party , the congolese national movement ( mnc ) is gaining prominence and patrice leaves his clerical job to sell beer , and get his face known , in the bustling capital , stanleyville .  at a time when the colonial empires are falling down around the world , lumumba is in the right place at the right time and , through political savvy and chess-like manipulation , achieves a position of leadership of the mnc .  as the date for independence approaches , he tactically positions himself to be the new nation's first prime minister and defense minister , supporting the presidency of joseph kasa vubu ( maka kotto ) .  the coalition he created soon starts to fall apart as the former belgian masters continue to exert influence on the struggling nation as they strive to maintain economic hold on the country's vast natural resources of copper , diamonds , gold and more .  lumumba won't seek the help of the us , knowing that they would try to create de facto american control of the fledgling government .  his initial investigation into soviet assistance immediately tags patrice as a communist and his integrity is overshadowed by the cold war threat of russian domination .  the situation goes from bad to worse as the army mutinies , the remaining whites begin to evacuate or arm themselves , belgian troops violently intervene , the lucrative katanga province succeeds under the leadership of rival moise tschombe ( pascal nzonzi ) and lumumba is refused access to his own country when he returns from a conference abroad .  this tumultuous and little known period of modern african history saw a score of nations struggling for independence from the sometimes-odious colonialists who have ruled much of the world from their european seats of power for centuries .  peck focuses his story on familiar material that strives to give an honest portrayal of patrice lumumba , his friend and foes and the independence movements that gripped africa in the 50's and 60's .   ( during the time the story takes place , many new nations , including nigeria and somalia , were born , with varying degrees of success and failure , usually dependent upon which country colonized them .  some colonial masters were better than others . )  the effort involved in " lumumba " is quite ambitious as peck and his crew before and behind the camera strive to bring to life this slice of world history that might have gone unexplored for decades , if at all .  production values are first rate on what must be a small , by us standards , budget .  the period feel and realistic african settings are nicely maintained in a production that traveled from zimbabwe to mozambique .  the screenplay covers a lot of ground and does yeoman's work in providing a great deal of detailed history while trying to do justice to the story of lumumba's life .  the political side of things is evenly told in a linear , straightforward manner that teaches , not preaches .  it concentrates on the good deeds of the man , if a bit as a stalwart saint , but doesn't embellish on a larger than life persona .  the family side of patrice's life is handled in several , perfunctory and brief interludes that show him talking to one of his children , embracing his wife or lamenting the death of his child .  i know the intent is to flesh the man out , but too short a shrift is given to the family man side of lumumba .  the story , as such , has a lopsided feel about it .  high marks go to eriq ebouaney as the title character .  the actor gives a convincing , charismatic performance as the multifaceted , politically deft patrice lumumba who has the good of his people and his country as the force driving his own ambitions .  in true docudrama tradition , the supporting cast does not outshine the star , complementing his good efforts , instead .   " lumumba " is a solid , interesting , educational and honest docudrama that should appeal to film buffs and politicos , both .  it has more intelligence in its telling than anything i've seen out of hollywood for months and i give it a b+ .  
pos	is this love or is it masochism ? binoche makes it interesting trying to find out . 
pos	norton holds the film together . 
pos	medem may have disrobed most of the cast , leaving their bodies exposed , but the plot remains as guarded as a virgin with a chastity belt . that's why sex and lucia is so alluring . 
neg	just entertaining enough not to hate , too mediocre to love . 
neg	the movie itself appears to be running on hypertime in reverse as the truly funny bits get further and further apart . 
neg	boy , what a great movie ! !  keanu reeves and morgan freeman acting together , the director of the fugitive ( andrew davis ) back again to give us another thriller , and the beautiful rachel stealing beauty weisz thrown in to boot .  how could this not be a blockbuster ?  all die-hard keanu reeves fans , read on .  ol " much ado about nothing " plays eddie kasalivich , a machinist studying at the university of chicago .  to help pay for the rent , he takes on this job making the machinery for a hydrogen project being conducted by the university .  by happy coincidence , he also happens to stumble on the solution to the final problem and thus is the only one who knows the key to performing this feat of miracle physics .  this project holds great promise : taking hydrogen from water and giving out more energy than is put in .  a potential solution to the earth's energy problems without the pollution cost .  surely nobody could have any problems with that ?  morgan freeman is paul shannon , the project's sponsor .  he works for a very powerful organization that disagrees with the paternal project leader as to how quickly technology should be released to the public .  he figures the world will disintegrate into anarchy if the results of the project are released too quickly .  so he murders the project leader , blows up the project ( great but short scene here , sort of like a mini id4 city-devastation thing ) and tries to simulate the experiment at some other hi-tech hush-hush location .  unfortunately , our intrepid machinist and an english physicist ( weisz ) manage to get away and now follows a fugitive-like chase using a not too dissimilar rehash of that movie script .  this movie is just dying for a comparison with " the fugitive " .  both movies use chicago as the main city and since the place doesn't change much , i guess we can't really blame the setting for the paucity of atmosphere .  the trouble here is that where the fugitive had harrison ford and tommy lee jones , chain reaction only has keanu reeves and fred ward .  credit to them , but we aren't really given much of a chance to empathise with the characters .  where ford was able to work within the confines of the movie to evoke sympathy , eddie kasalivich just doesn9t seem very believeable and reeves' character is never given the time to develop .  it might have been a better investment in film to give the characters more depth and spend less time on the chase sequences , which frankly , get quite boring after a while .  harrison ford was " the man against the world . "  he was alone in a world where he didn't know who to trust and it came across real well .  in chain reaction , keanu reeves isn't alone .  now that would be fine if the fleeing couple had some chemistry and could really portray some paranoia , vulnerability and confusion .  we don't get this .  we get him thinking he's still in speed , only now our sandra bullock has an english accent , probably doesn't drive a bus , and hardly contributes anything to the movie .  the producers here probably thought , " hey , what if keanu and rachel don't hit it off too well ?  let's rope in that morgan to help us out . "  well , keanu and rachel didn't hit it off well on the screen , and most unfortunately , morgan freeman doesn't help much either .  the only thing we come to really know of paul shannon is that he always has a full load of cigars in his cigar holder .  it's not really his fault .  once again , andrew davis just doesn't take the time to build his characters .  someone must have convinced him that this time round , cinema dollars are best earned by making the movie run like a headless chicken .  the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice .  
pos	i want to correct what i wrote last year in my retrospective of david lean's war picture .  i still think that " the bridge on the river kwai " doesn't deserve being the number 13 in the american film institute's list of the 100 greatest american movies .  and i think that " 12 angry men " , " witness for the prosecution " and " paths of glory " would have been better choices for the oscar for the best picture of 1957 .  but i can't deny the importance of " the bridge on the river kwai " - cinematically and in its contents .  the film is set in burma in 1943 .  a batallion of british soldiers in japanese war captivity is forced by the japanese to build a strategically momentous railway bridge over the river kwai .  but the british commanding officer , colonel nicholson ( alec guinness ) , insists - corresponding to the geneva conventions - that his officers needn't work as simple workmen .  struggling toughly , col . nicholson forces the japanese commandant , col . saito ( sessue hayakawa ) , to give way in this respect .  afterwards col . nicholson assiduously commits himself for the building of the bridge .  he considers it an opportunity to raise his men's morale , and he wants to prove superior british capabilities to the japanese .  but the british high command sends a few soldiers who shall destroy the bridge , among them the american shears ( william holden ) - an escapee from the japanese prison camp - and the british major warden ( jack hawkins ) . . .  a flaw of the picture is the clich ? d characterization of the japanese people .  they are presented as if they were intellectually inferior to the british - as if the japanese were incapable of building a bridge .  and the film doesn't consistently question the military spirit as kubrick does in " paths of glory " .  lean seems rather fascinated by the military hierarchies .  this is also perceptible in the conversations between col . nicholson and col . saito .  in this regard it is symptomatic that shears , who doubts the military logic , is presented as a somehow unpleasant person .  the audience is supposed to applaud col . nicholson's perseverance concerning the question if his officers shall work on the bridge or not .  the spectators are supposed to neglect the risks col . nicholson takes for his men .   ( the plot by-passes these risks . )  that means , the picture isn't perfect .  but it has a lot of virtues as well .   " the bridge on the river kwai " shows the " madness " of war and what it can produce in people's minds .  it shows how colonel nicholson becomes possessed by the idea of being a hero and that others ( like shears ) get cynics .  and lean's film is an interesting study of characters with clashing interests .  these points and the sometimes ironic dialogue make this film an anti-war film ( despite inconsistencies in the treatment of this theme ) .  david lean's direction is really effective and atmospherically perfect .  his film is highly suspenseful , especially in its dramatic ( if not wholly plausible ) showdown .  the film is also well-photographed and has an apt score .  alec guinness does a magnificent job of bringing col . nicholson to life and making him such an interesting character .  the other actors deliver fine performances as well .  i like this extraordinary film despite its weaknesses .   ( c ) karl rackwitz ( klein k ? ris , germany , 1999 )  
neg	in china in 1982 i turned the tables on our national guide and asked him if he had any questions about america .  i guess i was expecting some sort of political question .  instead , i was dumfounded by what was most on his mind .   " in america , do wives and their mothers-in-law get along well ? "  he assured me in china that they did , but i am certain if that were true he would not have asked .  even in china people seem to have problems relating to in- laws .  perhaps some of life's most difficult relationships arise when families are suddenly artificially joined by marriage .  a man trying to relate to his new prospective in-laws and vice-versa could be the basis of a very strong comedy .  meet the parents does not demonstrate that fact , however .  greg focker ( played by ben stiller ) has been dating and in love with pam byrnes ( teri polo ) for ten months and is now ready to propose to her .  he will do it during a weekend visit to meet debbie's family and to attend her sister's wedding .  from the beginning the relationship is awkward between greg and jack and dina byrnes ( robert deniro and blythe danner ) .  through no fault of his own , the airline has lost greg's luggage .  and he has to ask to borrow clothing .  it is the beginning of a game of one-upmanship in which greg is nearly always one-down .  as the games go on greg is more and more uncomfortable and uneasy which only contributes to the mistakes he makes .  greg is playing a game he does not understand , in a league he is new to .  but perhaps along the way he will discover some unexpected secrets about his father-in-law .  this film had potential in its tale of one-upmanship .  it has hit on a situation that many in the audience may find familiar--one that has not been done overly frequently in films .  but the script by jim herzfeld and john hamburg is a little too contrived .  too many coincidences in the story work against greg .  the script could not decide if the main character was incompetent or simply unlucky .  certainly he does not help his situation by doing everything wrong he possibly could , but even when he is trying to do the right things nature conspires against him .  there is an uneven mix of slapstick sequences and human comedy .  certainly the last part of the film feels awkwardly written .  the main reason to see meet the parents is to see robert deniro's performance .  deniro plays the suspicious and not a little fascistic father as tightly wound and threatening as he can .  the little judgmental expressions on his face are a show in themselves as greg digs himself deeper and deeper into his insecurities .  but we do not really see much of that digging .  ben stiller is an affable presence in the film but is not really stretching himself by playing the role as the nebbish to whom so many bad things happen .  it is nice to see blythe danner again on the screen .  but her character has a basic conflict between a basic decency and her love for her husband and the script should have given her more to do with that .  randy newman has written a playful score .  in the first few seconds of the film it does something creative i have never heard a film score do before .  there is a lot of source music that is popular music of the 1960s .  presumably that is what the upper class listens to at least in somebody's imagination .  humor is subjective and some this film has been getting some favorable comment .  but this is a comedy that works only occasionally for me .  i would have to rate it 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale .  
neg	when perry fists a bull at the moore farm , it's only a matter of time before he gets the upper hand in matters of the heart . 
neg	unsurprisingly , the way this all works out makes the women look more like stereotypical caretakers and moral teachers , instead of serious athletes . 
pos	with a cast that includes some of the top actors working in independent film , lovely & amazing involves us because it is so incisive , so bleakly amusing about how we go about our lives . 
neg	a film with very little positive to say for it . firstly it has zero pace and is positively lacking in any drama . besides being remarkably slow the empty acre seems dedicated to using the same stock footage again and again . i lost count of how many times i had seen " that " field at night or that bit of cracked earth . it also has the fundamental flaw of thinking that if the audience do n't know about things they will be gripped rather than just confused . so with no signs that there are any issues we suddenly find the marriage is not what it seems to be despite being given the impression that it 's fine . we find jacob is possibly the worst farmer in the universe as he seems to spend no time on the farm and also seems to have bought land with a wholly useless acre . beth has a key to a warehouse of books ? there are innumerable other questions some of which are resolved later in the movie , much later , in fact too late . and on the point of the acre . horror filmmakers note that large inanimate objects are inherently not scary  and also if they 're meant to be an acre big then make them so . there is also a frightening lack of reasonability as beth ( the best performer in the piece , followed by jefferson  the cop ) suddenly appears to be accused of everything under the sun just because she is on " medication " . with the full ten minutes plus of running round the fields looking for the missing child ( did he crawl out of the window ? he 's six months old ) the film descends into badly written scene after badly written scene . bad plinky plonk " horror " music fails to add atmosphere . often bad films can be amusing but not the empty acre , which is just bad .
neg	in the end , tuck everlasting falls victim to that everlasting conundrum experienced by every human who ever lived : too much to do , too little time to do it in . 
pos	a fascinating glimpse into an insular world that gives the lie to many clichés and showcases a group of dedicated artists . 
neg	consider the film a celluloid litmus test for the intellectual and emotional pedigree of your date and a giant step backward for a director i admire . 
neg	with its paint fights , motorized scooter chases and dewy-eyed sentiment , it's a pretty listless collection of kid-movie clichés . 
neg	the film is based on truth and yet there is something about it that feels incomplete , as if the real story starts just around the corner . 
neg	the most hopelessly monotonous film of the year , noteworthy only for the gimmick of being filmed as a single unbroken 87-minute take . 
pos	a highly spirited , imaginative kid's movie that broaches neo-augustinian theology : is god stuck in heaven because he's afraid of his best-known creation ? 
neg	susan granger's review of " glitter " ( 20th century-fox )  there's less here than meets the eye .  or , put it this way , if you thought madonna was awful in " shanghai surprise , " mariah carey's worse in this reworking of " a star is born . "  she plays billie frank who , despite being abandoned by her singer/alcoholic mother ( valerie pettiford ) , believes she's destined for greatness because everyone tells her she is .   " you've got this amazing gift , and you gotta use it , " her roommate says .   " your voice - it's incredible , " says another singer .   " i ain't never met anyone like you , " proclaims julian " dice " black ( max beesley ) , the hot new york dj who becomes her svengali-like producer/lover .  problem is : her signature song , " i didn't mean to turn you on " is wretched .  and when she fumes out of filming her first music video because the director wants to " exploit " her by having her wear a bikini , the audience bursts into laughter .  exploit mariah carey , who chooses to wear as little as the law will allow ?  come on !  writer kate lanier's script is fatuous and director vondie curtis-hall doesn't have a clue how to handle the glitzy pop diva and , as a result of their incompetence , whispery-voice'd ms . carey seems to be embarrassed on-screen .  she almost cringes when the camera comes in for a close-up , pursing her lips and averting her glassy eyes .  talented british musician max beesley appears equally inept , and as cinematographer geoffrey simpson pans around the manhattan skyline , there's an audible audience groan when the twin towers of the world trade center come into view .  perhaps one of the reasons ms . carey suffered her highly-publicized nervous breakdown this summer is because she saw a preview of this clunker .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " glitter " is a pathetic 1 .  right now , it's tops on my list of the worst of 2001 .  
neg	for all the complications , it's all surprisingly predictable . 
pos	everytime you think undercover brother has run out of steam , it finds a new way to surprise and amuse . 
pos	when it's not wallowing in hormonal melodrama , " real women have curves " is a sweet , honest , and enjoyable comedy-drama about a young woman who wants many things in life , but fears she'll become her mother before she gets to fulfill her dreams . 
pos	this film is not a love letter for the slain rappers , it's a taunt -a call for justice for two crimes from which many of us have not yet recovered . 
neg	this is no " waterboy ! " 
neg	i am usually disappointed by network movies . even flix that attract big name actors are usually ruined by the tv people . however , this one is the worst of the worst . the screenplay is weak and the acting , especially that of tracey pollan is abominable . i 've trudged off to see my kids'high school plays and been treated to better acting . pollan acts as if she is reading the script as she speaks . when she tries to express fear , anger or grief , it 's extremely hollow . because of the overall quality of the production i found it difficult to take it seriously . if you decide to brave this one just be prepared for a big disappointment . scary things wo n't scare you , sad things wo n't make you sad , romance wo n't make you feel warm and fuzzy and you will likely be as anxious as i was to see the end arrive . " first to die " says a lot about this movie .
pos	an animation landmark as monumental as disney's 1937 breakthrough snow white and the seven dwarfs . 
pos	there's an old saying that states something about leaving the best for last .  george lucas certainly followed that adage when crafting the original star wars trilogy .  return of the jedi , the final installment of the series , is easily the most innovative , action-packed , and entertaining of the three films .  the dark , eerie atmosphere that oozed from every frame of the empire strikes back is gone .  instead , for return of the jedi , we have good triumphing decisively over evil , a resolution to a love triangle , and walking teddy bears .  even darth vader doesn't seem very intimidating this time around .  with the arrival of the emperor ( an apparition-like creature played by ian mcdiarmid ) , vader has turned into somewhat of a henchman .  return of the jedi picks up at an unspecified time after the conclusion of the empire strikes back .  luke skywalker ( mark hamill ) , princess leia ( carrie fisher ) , lando calrissian , ( billy dee williams ) , chewbacca ( peter mayhew ) , c3p0 ( anthony daniels ) and r2-d2 ( kenny baker ) are on a rescue mission to luke's home planet of tatooine .  their goal : to save han solo ( harrison ford ) from the clutches of the intergalactic gangster jabba the hutt .  it is at jabba's home , a creepy-looking stone fortress guarded by hog-nosed beasts , that most of the added special effects come into play .  from a hysterical scene involving a music group to the dreaded beast outside jabba's sand barge , the effects are top notch .  as soon as han is freed from his cryo-freeze and rescued from the clutches of the evil jabba the hutt , it's back to outer space , where the rebel alliance is about to face the empire's newest threat : a second , more powerful death star , that , if activated , could spell doom for anyone who stands against the emperor .  so , while the fleet prepares for the final battle , luke and company travel to the forest moon of endor to knock out the shield that defends the death star against all attacks .  there , they are befriended by the ewoks , the teddy bear-like native race , and luke , fearing that his presence is endangering the group , turns himself over to vader .  return of the jedi has some interesting elements .  the scenes which pitted luke against the emperor and vader are suitably tense and well-acted .  from a technical point-of-view , the space battles are amazing , easily hindering anything depicted in the previous films .  not only are there many , many more ships , but their speed and range of movement have been dramatically improved .  on one level , return of the jedi is almost worth watching for the special effects .  in the special edition , even more ships are added , making the final space battle incredibly fun to watch .  the acting in return of the jedi is stronger than in the previous films .  by now ( or then - 1983 ) , mark hamill , harrison ford , and carrie fisher have all matured in their on-screen personas .  the chemistry amongst the trio is terrific .  as in empire , billy dee williams gives us another human hero to root for .  newcomer ian mcdiarmid plays the emperor as a suitably creepy , cunning , and evil creature , although he's not as imposing as vader was in star wars .  although it was great fun watching star wars and the empire strikes back on the big screen , return of the jedi generates a greater sense of enjoyment .  with the spectacular , new special effects , the adorable ewoks , the sinister jabba the hutt , the evil emperor , the same old millenium falcon , darth vader's incredible betrayal , the destruction of the new death star , and the always lovable yoda , return of the jedi concludes one of the greatest trilogies ever made with a huge bang .  congratulations to george lucas , whose innovative mind entertains us now and will continue to entertain generations to come .   ,  
neg	detox is ultimately a pointless endeavor . 
neg	equlibrium could pass for a thirteen-year-old's book report on the totalitarian themes of 1984 and farenheit 451 . 
pos	 " oh my god , i sounded just like a mother ! "  mrs . pascal , played with devilish wickedness by genevieve bujold , tells her son .   " didn't i sound just like a mother ? "   " you are a mother , " her son marty tells her disgustedly .   " i know , but i still can't believe it .  i look at you people and wonder , how did you ever fit in my womb ? "  marty , you see , is a grown-up twin .  although his sister , who thinks she is jackie-o , is certifiably insane , marty fits right in with the rest of this highly dysfunctional family in the witty black comedy the house of yes .  mother and daughter , played in a brilliant performance by parker posey , are both varying degrees of wacko .  most dysfunctional families in the movies are more angry and mean-spirited than diabolically abnormal as this one is .  the daughter's fantasy of being jackie-o is probably the most sane part of her being .  mrs . pascal is the sort that will not let jackie-o keep a hairbrush downstairs since food is kept on that level .  she explains to marty's new fiancee , lesly ( tori spelling ) , soon after their first meeting that jackie-o was holding marty's private part when she came out of the womb .  the dialog by wendy macleod , based on the play by mark waters , is so sharp and biting that it seems in danger of cutting through the celluloid at any moment .  the script , reminiscent of a david mamet play , flows smoothly with its fast paced intelligence and mesmerizing set of bizarre characters .  the exaggerated setup has lesly and marty arriving at the family's out of the way mansion during a thanksgiving day hurricane .  in this storm are two sane individuals .  the fiancee is a giddy , school-girl type , embarrassed by everything , a complete contrast to her rival jackie-o's bitter pseudo-sophistication .  as the two twins' younger brother , anthony , freddie prinze jr . plays the all-america boy type whose only foible is his explicit obsession of bedding his brother's fiancee that night .   " we all have our secrets , " jackie-o tells her potential sister-in-law , and boy , does she have a few .  this is a house filled with them .   ( when lesly calls it the family's " home " to mrs . pascal -- they've never had a visitor before lesly -- mrs . pascal becomes discombobulated until she realizes that lesly is talking about their " house . " )  in a film that gives new meaning to the phrase , " made for each other , " the twin's biggest , but not their only secret , is that they've had a long-term incestuous relationship .  they don't like to discuss it , although they are not particularly ashamed of it .  perfect for viewers who can appreciate perverse comedy , this story never pulls its punches .  jackie-o tries in many ways , few subtle , to show that she is a better match for marty than that ditzy fiancee of his .  in one scene marty and lesly are playing chop sticks together on the piano when jackie-o pushes her aside and starts playing a challenging classical piece for four hands .  marty joins her as his fiancee looks on with envy .  the chemistry between parker posey and josh hamilton is nothing short of amazing .  they put down their little brother and most of the other sane people in the world .  their ripostes are engaging filmmaking at its best .  director mark waters keeps the show's energy level high and lets the leads sling zingers at each other at a furious pace .  his crisp direction ensures the movie has nary an ounce of fat on it .  jackie-o is temperamentally incapable of being nice .  and being jealous , she cuts lesly down mercilessly .   " were you poor ? "  jackie-o asks her when she finds that lesly committed the crime of growing up impoverished .   " did you eat pies ?  chicken pot pies ? "   " pancakes actually , lots of pancakes , " lesly replies with her usual sincerity .   " a donut king , so is she like the queen ? , "  jackie-o cattily inquires of marty when she learns that lesly works at a donut king .   " are we entertaining royalty ? "  with rolfe kent's whimsically sinister music it never seems clear where the story is headed .  will it end in a big emotional explosion , a murder , people slowly cutting each other up with words , a familial catharsis , a weather disaster or what ?  the emotionally charged play is clearly going somewhere , and the engaging characters captivate the audience with their spell .  i'll not say more except that the ending is perfect and a bit of a surprise .  the house of yes runs a blazing fast 1 : 25 .  it is rated r for sexual situations and conversations , mature themes , violent overtones and some profanity .  the movie would be fine for older and mature teenagers , i . e . , treat the movie as it were rated nc-17 .  
neg	granddad of le nouvelle vague , jean-luc godard continues to baffle the faithful with his games of hide-and-seek . 
pos	an enjoyable comedy of lingual and cultural differences the château is a film -- full of life and small delights -- that has all the wiggling energy of young kitten . 
neg	a quaint , romanticized rendering . 
pos	on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , the powerpuff girls is a fast , frenetic , funny , even punny 6 -- aimed specifically at a grade-school audience . 
pos	like other great documentaries . . . this goes after one truth ( the ford administration's complicity in tearing 'orphans' from their mothers ) and stumbles upon others even more compelling . 
neg	this cloying , voices-from-the-other-side story is hell . 
neg	... though for a film that seems to be trying to market itself as a horror , there was a distinct lack of blood . there was also a distinct lack of skilled directing , acting , editing , and script - writing . jeremy london put in one of most appalling performances i 've ever seen - his " descent into the maelström " of madness is achingly self - aware and clumsy . oh look at him twitch ! oh look at him drink strong spirits ! oh look at him raise his brow , and cock his head at a jaunty angle ! oh look at his unwashed , greasy dark hair ! oh listen to his affectedly husky voice ! he must be a tortured artist / writer / genius ! oh , yes , out comes the poet - shirt - it 's another boy who thinks he 's byron . ( or poe . ) oh for the love of ... did someone give this guy a manual on " how to act good " or did they just pull him out of a cardboard box somewhere , the defunct little plastic toy - prize in a discontinued brand of bargain - bin cereal . okay , that was a stupid line - but that 's only because london 's performance has melted my brain with its awfulness . katherine heigl is cute , and very briar rose , but has yet to grow into her acting shoes in this film - she delivered her lines like she was being held up , in fact , her whole performance was very wooden , her poses as stiff as her lines - who knows , perhaps she was just reacting to , and trying to neutralise , jeremy london 's flailing excesses , but if that 's the case , she takes it too far . notable is arie verveen as poe - while his character 's role is confused , he delivers the best performance of the piece . he , quite simply , looks right , but it 's more than that - he has some sort of depth , i believed that he had a life beyond the dismal two - dimensional quality of the rest of the characters . huh , maybe it 's just because i like poe , and could thus just let my mind wander and invent while he was on screen - whatever , he had an interest factor otherwise missing . the rest of the characters are a faceless blur - there are all the usual caricatures : the perky blonde best - friend who 's a bit of a floozy ; the smitten local cop who 's a bit of a dork ; the protective older man who perhaps has too much un - fatherly interest in our heroine ; the scheming old witch , etc . , etc . , yawn , yawn .   as with the ' distinct lack of blood for a horror movie ' issue , none of the themes that they mention ( and that london 's character mentions - so scathingly - in his attack on poe 's writing ) are followed through on . as another reviewer said - there was potential here : murder , incest , - genuinely shocking stuff , but instead they skirt away from the issues , and cut away from the violence ( a raised candlestick swinging through the air - closing in on it 's victim - then --- cut to black ! this is fine in a noirish traditional horror , indeed , it 's expected , and is fondly received when it happens - it 's a dear convention , especially when accompanied by fake lightning bolts and intense siouxie eye makeup - but in ' descendant ' it just comes across as clumsy , or as though the editor got queasy at the last minute and cut it out . ) this could have either been a very tense psychological thriller - the horror of palingenesis / delusion / madness - or a simple ( and fun ) slasher movie : it tries to be both , or neither ( something new and exciting ! ) , but either way it fails dismally . the only horror element of this entire movie is it 's epic dullness . i think the editor ( if there was one at all ) must have been drunk when s / he chopped this thing up - there are awkwardly foreshortened scenes ; scenes that appeared to be out of order ( but that could have just been the poor script ) . likewise the director & cinematographer - there were some very strange shots and framing that i think were meant to be tributes to hitchcock or browning , but just ended up looking silly ( again , fine in a noir , but this was trying to be something else . ) the whole thing perhaps may have been funny ( in that way that previous reviewers have mentioned - " omg how did this get made ? ! ? " ) if i had been in the mood for some trash- bagging , unfortunately for me i had settled on the couch , with the lights down low , with the express intention of scaring myself silly - this is a very poor film , and i 'm afraid i ca n't recommend it to people , not even for laughs . please , please , do n't waste your time or money on this - either borrow a real horror / thriller film , or find yourself a copy of poe 's fantastical tales , either way , you 'll have a far more enjoyable and frightening night than you could ever hope to achieve with this rubbish .
neg	first impressions : critically , a close-to-awful film , but money-wise , it has been doing ( and will continue to do ) great .  a sometimes-funny film that sags and lags and oftentimes gets boring .  an orginal plot that grows old real fast .  one of the only 90 minute films that i've gotten bored through .  men in black has defied the odds .  when i first saw that the flick was 89 minutes long , i thought maybe that this was a poor attempt at an independence day type film that just ran out of gas .  however , i now realize that not only did men in black run out of gas , but the film in 90 minutes manages to show off a very original idea ( which summer audiences have embraced ) that becomes old about 25 minutes into the movie .  tommy lee jones and will smith play two " government " agents who are responsible for keeping order in alien society .  the ridiculous plot begins when an alien " bug " , played weirdly by vincent d'onofrio , who was so great in full metal jacket , lands on earth to retrieve a galaxy that's somewhere on " orion's belt . "  anyway , the basic plot revolves around jones and smith to stop this bug from getting the galaxy , or a higher power will blow up the earth .  the premise is ridulous , but that is not why i didn't like this film .  i love original plots .  this one had an original one .  but director barry sonnenfeld did something to this film that ruined its plot : he made the film drag and also put in unncessary elements in it that are found in romance films .  whenever i saw d'onofrio's bug stomp and eat people in the film , it got terribly boring after a while .  while smith's wise-cracks did fill in the gaps , it wasn't enough .  and also , i cannot believe the screenwriters elected to have a sub-plot where tommy lee jones missed his former lover because as an alien agent , they can't have contact with any humans really .  and here i see jones , at a satellite computer , watching his lover plant the garden ?  a sentimental moment in an alien movie ?  nice try , but i don't think so .  it doesn't work here .  it just makes the movie even more ridiculous and even more boring : we don't only have aliens to worry about , but now we have jones's conscience .  i came into the movie not wanting to see jones's conscience , but wanting to see a real action movie that had lots of aliens in it .  maybe it's unfair that i partly judged this movie on what my expectations were .  nevertheless , even though some parts are indeed funny , the plot in this movie grew old and boring -- quick .  
pos	zhang . . . has done an amazing job of getting realistic performances from his mainly nonprofessional cast . 
neg	so few movies explore religion that it's disappointing to see one reduce it to an idea that fits in a sampler . 
pos	stay clear of reminding yourself that it's a " true story " and you're likely to have one helluva time at the movies . 
pos	wonder , hope and magic can never escape the heart of the boy when the right movie comes along , especially if it begins with the name of star wars
pos	after you 've seen this small likable and comical film , you will for sure feel better . cheer to yves b. pelletier to have given birth to this small magnificent movie moment , that according to me , will be recognized as a marking movie of year 2004 for the quebec . the actors isabelle blais , emmanuel bilodeau , sylvie moreau and stéphane gagnon all deliver a touching performance . i would compare the feeling that this wonderful story gives you to the ones that le fabuleux destin d'amélie poulain have given me . so if you 've like the jean - pierre jeunet magnificent film , i would say that you should also like the first movie from yves b. pelletier , les aimants
neg	it looks like the brilliant team of shonda rhimes outsourced the writing of this one somewhere offshore , maybe to the mediocreland ? " pp " reminds me any one of the many tedious , promising at first but predictable within 1 season david kelly flicks ( picket fences , ally mcbeal , and now boston legal ) . the crazy cases they get are so outlandish , they barely evoke sympathy or sadness . and that 's what actually makes good medical dramas tick - dramatic situations you are afraid of , " this could be me " sentiment . they are not funny either . the actors are quite good , but the plot lines are dead and can not be brought back to live . i 'm a therapist , and let me tell you - amy brennan plays the most unbelievably incompetent , unethical , untrained therapist . whoever writes her stuff flunked the ethics and the transference / counter - transference courses in stanford . somebody should give them a code of ethics to read ( the episode with the nose - bleeding wife and the therapist 's involvement in it ) . no therapists are that bad . women yearning for men who have moved on - had been done to death , we 've all graduated " sex and the city " . addison in her youthful aggression towards the guy she likes - very age - inappropriate , looks so unnatural on a woman over 40 , and this otherwise talented actress does n't believe it herself and does n't deliver it very well . the only successful / palatable developments are addison struggling with her decision to move to la , and the " voodoo dr " and his coping with widowhood . this concept might work with a whole new writing team .
pos	the primitive force of this film seems to bubble up from the vast collective memory of the combatants . it's like watching a nightmare made flesh . 
pos	that haynes can both maintain and dismantle the facades that his genre and his character construct is a wonderous accomplishment of veracity and narrative grace . 
neg	harvard man is a semi-throwback , a reminiscence without nostalgia or sentimentality . 
pos	a solid cast , assured direction and complete lack of modern day irony . 
neg	though certainly original in form , altar boys requires a taste for swamp thing-type animation , doubled with a deafening score . 
pos	soderbergh , like kubrick before him , may not touch the planet's skin , but understands the workings of its spirit . 
pos	84 minutes of rolling musical back beat and supercharged cartoon warfare . it's also , clearly , great fun . 
neg	a fake street drama that keeps telling you things instead of showing them . 
neg	yes they can swim , the title is merely anne-sophie birot's off-handed way of saying girls find adolescence difficult to wade through . 
pos	a . . . cynical and serious look at teenage boys doing what they do best - being teenagers . 
pos	solondz is so intent on hammering home his message that he forgets to make it entertaining . 
pos	recently i read 4 reviews of pleasantville-one from entertainment weekly , one from a newsgroup , and two from different online resources .  each review compared this film to the truman show .  why ?  the only reason people compared pleasantville to truman is due to the fact that their lives are on television .  other than that , the two movies are completely different from each other .  reviewers seem to love to pick one movie ( i . e .  the truman show ) , obsess over it , and make it a guideline for other movies .  when pleasantville and edtv opened , all critics seemed to treat the two films like they were subjects of king truman .  the same goes for the thin red line , as well .  when it opened in decemeber , probably 98% of reviews compared it to stephen spielberg's saving private ryan , giving thin line no chance whatsoever .  critics loved private ryan so much , that they automatically decided no movie is good enough to reach its standards .  this is why i think pleasantville was underrated .  if the truman show had never been made , pleasantville probably would have received better reviews , done better at the box office , and would be remembered after it's long been on the video store shelves .  sure , it wasn't perfect , and it wasn't very believeable , but neither was the wizard of oz or star wars , and there stands two of the most prominent movies in history .  with the exception of don knotts as the annoying " tv repairman " the film is cast perfectly : the ice storm's tobey maguire is david in real life ; he watches the old 50's sitcom " pleasantville " to escape from his feuding parents .  his twin sister , jen ( reese witherspoon ) is a popular slut who ( steriotypically ) smokes and wears revealing clothes .  but what makes her character believeable is the dialogue-those excessive 90's terms such as " like " , " whatever " , and " cool " make her sound like the total dimwit she's supposed to be .  the twins , with a little help from a tv repairman ( casting don knotts in this role was obviously a cameo-esque cast rather than a true acting one ) , are sucked into pleasantville by a magical new remote .  their new parents , played by william h . macy and joan allen , are perfect in every way .  their new names are bud and mary sue , and right away they start to corrupt the town of pleasantville .  after the siblings fit comfortably in their new roles , the movie begins to take form .  it's just like watching a sitcom in itself ; you don't want it to end .   " mary sue " has sex with her date , the school basketball champion ; when he tells all his friends about it , they stop preforming perfectly at basketball , and things start to take color .  soon we learn that these people don't know how to express true emotions , and when they learn to do so , they eventually turn into color .  this eventually sparks a racial war between the " coloreds " and the " black & whites . "  entertainment weekly reviewer lisa schwarzbaum claims the movie has , " none of the depth , poignance , and brilliance of the truman show . . . "  yes , the truman show was maybe a little more intelligent .  but the racial setting-intensified by the forcing of the coloreds to sit in the upper box of the courtroom-certainly classifies as deep , considering it's what i least expected .  gary ross did not try to create an intelligent , award masterpiece-he just tries to convey moral messages within his work .  take for example big and dave , his past films .  big-be careful what you wish for .  dave-good or bad lying is still lying .  did these movies win big awards ?  no , but they won the heart of millions .  pleasantville could have done that too , if it wasn't for snotty reviewers who set precedents with preceeding films .  pleasantville : a- ad2am " i almost lost my nose . . . and  i like it .  i like breathing through it . "  -jack nicholson , chinatown  
pos	" bend it like beckham " is a film that got very little exposure here in the united states . it was probably due to the fact that the movie was strongly british in dialogue and terminology and dealt a lot with football , ( soccer here ) , which some may have trouble relating too in the u.s. it 's unfortunate because this movie is absolutely fantastic and deserved much more coverage over here . i think the basis of the storyline , ( following a dream ) , is something many people can relate to and in the end , " bend it like beckham " proves to be a good - feeling film with a source of inspiration and really good acting . i was not overly excited about seeing this film initially but now i regret not seeing it sooner . i highly recommend this movie !
neg	i'm giving this stinker .  normally , the worst that i would ever rate a movie would be .  but the total waste of time that is blazing saddles is , compounded by the fact that this movie is incredibly offensive , helped me come to the big goose egg .  i'm not sure what the hell mel brooks was thinking when he made this thing , or if he was even thinking at all .  maybe in mel's little mind a horse being knocked unconscious because of a punch to the face is funny .  in mine , it's not .  or maybe mel graduated from the spike lee school of filmmaking .  because only the self-righteous lee uses the n-word more often in his films than brooks did in this one .  at least lee has the smarts to realize that nobody is going to find that term amusing .  brooks bandies it about like he figures the audience will be rolling in the aisles every time they hear it .  wrong mel !  i would call you a boob mel , but that insults breasts everywhere .  this idiotic attempt at a comedy centers on the evil lieutenant governor's ( harvey korman ) attempts to clear out a town so he can buy up the land cheap and sell it to the railroad .  he sends his goons to run the townsfolk out .  but the town appeals to the governor ( mel brooks in one of many uninspired , and unfunny roles ) to send them a new sheriff to protect them .  the governor pawns the task off to korman's character hedley lamarr .   ( i can tell you are rolling off your chairs right now just thinking of all the humor in that name . )  lamarr decides to send the town a black sheriff ( gasp ) in the hopes that the town will be so disgusted at the prospect of a black man living among them that they will all just leave .  hold on , i've got to stop while these gales of laughter pass .  it's just too funny .  racism passing as humor -- gosh why didn't anybody ever think of that one before ?  oh wait , i think somebody might have -- they are called the kkk .  i'm not calling brooks a racist -- but i am calling him an insensitive bastard who wouldn't know what was funny if it hit him over the head .  but i digress .  anyway , the black sheriff rides into town amid a flurry of townsfolk using the n-word .  golly , will the hilarity just never end ?  he ends up joining forces with a drunk ( gene wilder ) , who happens to be the former fastest gun in the west .  together , they save the day from evil .  not one person in this movie gives a decent performance .  wilder looks like he is recovering from a head injury for most of the movie , and korman looks embarrassed to be a part of the movie .  ok , he really didn't -- but he should have .  the films star cleavon little goes along with the black jokes as if they were discussing the time of day .  i did not laugh once during this whole sorry experience .  i admit to starting to snicker on a couple of occasions .  actually , the end started to look as if it was going to have some promise , but alas , it ended up being as crappy as the rest of the movie .  i can say with full confidence that blazing saddles has no redeeming qualities whatsoever .  mel brooks would be doing the world a favor if he burned every last copy of this film .  
pos	surprisingly powerful and universal . 
pos	the directing and story are disjointed , flaws that have to be laid squarely on taylor's doorstep . but the actors make this worth a peek . 
neg	i've never written a review for a movie i haven't watched all the way through , but i had to make an exception with powder .  i was about forty-five minutes into this one at a friend's house when he and his brother got into a huge shouting match that would have ended in violence had we not left the house .  so i never got to finish the movie and i'm sure as hell not going to pay three more bucks to watch half of a bad movie .  but i can at least get a partial review out of it , because i saw enough to know this one wasn't worth finishing in the first place .  the movie centers around a freaky teenager who's spent his entire life living in the cellar of his grandparents' house .  when grandpa dies ( taking his department store down with him ) , social worker mary steenburgen has to take powder ( first and middle names ?  gold bond ) to a state home , where we find out he's a different from the other kids .  actually , we find out he's different when we first see him , because he's the most pale individual we've ever seen and moreover he has no body hair whatsoever .  when powder is born in the opening minutes of the movie , the father takes one look at him and says " he's not my son . "  obviously .  all i want to know is where the pillsbury dough boy was nine months ago .  so the white-faced freak leaves his neverland ranch for the state home and faces the ridicule of other kids .  that is , until they try to haze him during his first cafeteria lunch by making him " wear " his spoon ( " you can either wear it on your nose or up your ass . "  decisions , decisions . . . ) and he uses telepathic powers to draw all the silverware in the room into a giant pile in the middle of the table .  so if his father is the pillsbury dough boy , his mother must be sissy spacek's carrie character .  and you have to factor in two more things from the subsequent scenes , as we find out powder has some sort of super-intelligence ( " your i . q .  test went straight off the chart ! " )  and attracts electrical power .  this first shows up as powder visits the world of high school ( if he's such a genius already , why would he need a high school education ? ) and sits through a demonstration in jeff goldblum's science class .  goldblum plugs in a " jacob's ladder " device that shows current running up two wires and immediately the current flows across the room and into powder's chest .  but goldblum just stands there for about thirty seconds watching , instead of just unplugging the damn thing .  i guess he was too busy contemplating why he was appearing in his third bad movie in a row ( following hideaway and nine months ) .  that's about all i saw before the big fight began and , let me tell you , that was twice as interesting as the movie itself .  but like i said , i saw enough to know this would be one of those terrible melodramas about the isolation of people who have superior abilities and how hard it is for those people to assimilate themselves into mainstream civilization .  none of these movies ever handle the subject properly , instead introducing the feeble beauty and the beast copout of having a beautiful woman fall in love with the guy's personality , overlooking his personal appearance .  i already had the female character picked out ( the girl who was sitting next to him in the back of the room during the electrocution scene ) , but i guess i'll never know for sure what happened .  from noraruth@aol . com  mon jun 10 15 : 04 : 03 edt 1996 article : 3654 of rec . arts . movies . reviews  path : nntphub . cb . att . com ! not-for-mail  from : noraruth@aol . com   ( andrew hicks ) newsgroups : rec . arts . movies . reviews , rec . arts . sf . reviews  subject : review : powder ( 1995 ) followup-to : rec . arts . movies . current-films , rec . arts . sf . movies  date : 10 jun 1996 18 : 16 : 03 gmt organization : university of missouri - columbia lines : 70 sender : ecl@mtcts1 . att . com   ( evelyn c . leeper ) approved : ecl@mtcts1 . att . com  message-id : " > reply-to : noraruth@aol . com   ( andrew hicks ) nntp-posting-host : mtcts2 . mt . lucent . com  summary : r . a . m . r .  #05425 keywords : author=hicks originator : ecl@mtcts2 xref : nntphub . cb . att . com  rec . arts . movies . reviews : 3654  rec . arts . sf . reviews : 710  status : ro  powder a film review by andrew hicks copyright 1996 andrew hicks / fatboy productions  i've never written a review for a movie i haven't watched all the way through , but i had to make an exception with powder .  i was about forty-five minutes into this one at a friend's house when he and his brother got into a huge shouting match that would have ended in violence had we not left the house .  so i never got to finish the movie and i'm sure as hell not going to pay three more bucks to watch half of a bad movie .  but i can at least get a partial review out of it , because i saw enough to know this one wasn't worth finishing in the first place .  the movie centers around a freaky teenager who's spent his entire life living in the cellar of his grandparents' house .  when grandpa dies ( taking his department store down with him ) , social worker mary steenburgen has to take powder ( first and middle names ?  gold bond ) to a state home , where we find out he's a different from the other kids .  actually , we find out he's different when we first see him , because he's the most pale individual we've ever seen and moreover he has no body hair whatsoever .  when powder is born in the opening minutes of the movie , the father takes one look at him and says " he's not my son . "  obviously .  all i want to know is where the pillsbury dough boy was nine months ago .  so the white-faced freak leaves his neverland ranch for the state home and faces the ridicule of other kids .  that is , until they try to haze him during his first cafeteria lunch by making him " wear " his spoon ( " you can either wear it on your nose or up your ass . "  decisions , decisions . . . ) and he uses telepathic powers to draw all the silverware in the room into a giant pile in the middle of the table .  so if his father is the pillsbury dough boy , his mother must be sissy spacek's carrie character .  and you have to factor in two more things from the subsequent scenes , as we find out powder has some sort of super-intelligence ( " your i . q .  test went straight off the chart ! " )  and attracts electrical power .  this first shows up as powder visits the world of high school ( if he's such a genius already , why would he need a high school education ? ) and sits through a demonstration in jeff goldblum's science class .  goldblum plugs in a " jacob's ladder " device that shows current running up two wires and immediately the current flows across the room and into powder's chest .  but goldblum just stands there for about thirty seconds watching , instead of just unplugging the damn thing .  i guess he was too busy contemplating why he was appearing in his third bad movie in a row ( following hideaway and nine months ) .  that's about all i saw before the big fight began and , let me tell you , that was twice as interesting as the movie itself .  but like i said , i saw enough to know this would be one of those terrible melodramas about the isolation of people who have superior abilities and how hard it is for those people to assimilate themselves into mainstream civilization .  none of these movies ever handle the subject properly , instead introducing the feeble beauty and the beast copout of having a beautiful woman fall in love with the guy's personality , overlooking his personal appearance .  i already had the female character picked out ( the girl who was sitting next to him in the back of the room during the electrocution scene ) , but i guess i'll never know for sure what happened .  
neg	enough similarities to gymkata and howie long's firestorm that my fingernails instinctively crawled towards my long-suffering eyeballs . 
pos	the caveman's valentine starring samuel l . jackson , ann magnuson , aunjanue ellis , tamara tunie screenplay by george dawes green , based on his novel directed by kasi lemmons   * * * for more film , dvd and books about movie reviews , plus annual coverage of the toronto international film festival , visit _film freak central_ - http : //filmfreakcentral . net  | now with search engine * * *  a strange mixture of _shine_ , _basquiat_ , _angel heart_ , and grant morrison & dave mckean's graphic novel " arkham asylum " , _the caveman's valentine_ is a feverish tale of a homeless madman-cum-detective who , on the morning of february 14th , discovers a " valentine " just outside his new york cave : one of ella fitzgerald's strange fruit , stuck in the crotch of a tree--a young male model murdered and frozen to a branch .  believing at first that his imagined nemesis stuyvesant , shooting evil rays into his mind from atop the chrysler building , is responsible for the murder , romulus ( samuel l . jackson ) is put on the trail of an avant-garde photographer in the mapplethorpe mould , david leppenraub ( colm feore ) .  his minor sleuthing interrupted by the occasional delusional fit and bouts with an ecstasy of creation ( romulus was a brilliant julliard-trained pianist prior to his psychosis ) , romulus uncovers clues and harasses suspects on his way to convincing his police-woman daughter ( aunjanue ellis ) that even though he's a nut , that doesn't mean that he can't solve a high-profile society murder .  every moment an exhausting workshop of ideas , and every character the same , _the caveman's valentine_ is a concept so " high concept " that it suddenly became clear to me that the film fits into the comic book genre of entertainment , with romulus's " caveman " a slightly more mundane version of todd mcfarlane's urban noir hero , spawn .  with a long-vanished wife ( tamara tunie ) acting as a spiritual guide , the occasional social caste commentary , the secret base in a cave , a divergent genius personality with a network of informants and supporters , and a wickedly colourful arch-enemy , the film piles on the lurid comic book details and dizzying slapdash colours to such a lavish extent that i was vaguely surprised that the blue police cars weren't inscribed with " gotham pd . "  that being said , _the caveman's valentine_ can only really succeed as a heroic fantasy , a frank miller graphic novel that has the audacity to portray the blood staining a field of virgin snow expanding to form the shape of a heart .  the difficulties with the film spring from the misunderstanding that it somehow adheres to the conventions of a thriller or a police procedural when , in fact , _the caveman's valentine_ is a superhero fable that takes on the cause of the homeless ( again like mcfarlane's spawn ) while attacking the entrenched ruling classes in government and the arts .  it is no small detail that our hero , romulus , is not only named for a member of the ruling class who lived his life ( in legend ) without knowledge of his royal birth , but also that our romulus has turned his back on the comforts of the literati in favour of a mystical existence living in a cave in a park . in the romulus mythology , signs of romulus' royal blood is brought by twelve vultures , while in the film , the call to action for our hero comes in the form of not the carrion birds , but of the carrion itself .  whether or not romulus of _the caveman's valentine_ will found a nation , or , in the case of novelist george dawes green , upon whose novel his own screenplay is based , a franchise , the fact remains that _the caveman's valentine_ is easily the most misunderstood film of 2001 thus far .  it , along with m . night shyamalan's _unbreakable_ , is a mature cinematic extrapolation of the graphic novel format which has , since miller's seminal " the dark knight returns " , redefined the comic medium as one suitable for mature ruminations on psychologically sticky topics .  readers of sam keith's brilliant " the maxx " comic series ( or of mtv's short-lived animated adaptation of the same ) are already familiar with the idea of a homeless man placed in the position of knight errant and king of his own twisted demesne .  the failure of both " the maxx " tv show and of _the caveman's valentine_ ( not forgetting the initial backlash against _unbreakable_ ) suggests that the public may not be ready for america's surprising contributions to dark fantasy .  luxuriantly lit , brashly saturated , and comic-panel framed with a virtuoso grace by cinematographer amy vincent ( _death in venice , ca_ ) , while inhabiting robin standefer's ( _practical magic_ ) mesmerizing sets , _the caveman's valentine_ is an unremittingly gorgeous film .  kasi lemmons , following up her brilliant 1997 debut , _eve's bayou_ , which played on similar themes of manufactured realities and mysticism , fulfills much of her immense promise with a tale of seraphs and lost boys , artists and suffering .  _the caveman's valentine_ is an elegant and piquant expression of hope for justice in a tilted landscape .  clearly not for every taste , when approached with the correct paradigm , it is one of the most stunning and intensely fascinating films of the year : a redefinition of the hero archetype for a post-modern audience with urine-stained wool trench coats in place of blue tights and red capes .  _the caveman's valentine_ is a fine and a courageous film , crazy enough to suggest that the delirious yammering of an idiot savant is the best and truest paladin of order in the chaos of eliot's rat's alley wasteland .  
neg	imagine a really bad community theater production of west side story without the songs . 
pos	one of the biggest cliches of any serial killer film is also one of the most believable .  you know , the one where the detective looks at a wall of pictures and other police information , and suddenly spots the clue which reveals who the killer is .  sure , it's been used over and over , but for some reason , it is always fun to watch .  this cliche pretty much describes the level kiss the girls works on : overused , but always fun .  one of my personal rules about watching a film is not how original the film is , but how it goes around giving its story .  this rule applies highly to kiss the girls .  there is something psychologically stimulating in a well-crafted serial killer movie , and kiss the girls is certainly well made .  however , the whole film screams of unoriginality , and so it relies on the power of its actors and the technical detail to pull it through .  well , not only are the actors capable of pulling it through , but they add so much to the film that nearly every flaw is covered up .  unfortunately , one of the most revealing and rather insulting choices by the filmmakers ( one that seven , a film a lot like this one , knew not to make ) was to put the name of the killer in the opening credits .  that may give the actor credit for the role , but throughout the film , hidden in my mind , i was waiting for him to appear on screen , which spoiled the mystery .  however , credit must be given to the director for suspending this knowledge through most of the film .  plotwise , kiss the girls shows almost no originality .  we are introduced to detective alex cross ( morgan freeman ) , a forensic psychologist , and immediately we are given the cliched scene establishing him as the hero .  he gets a call about a woman who has shot her husband and is now threatening to kill herself .  obviously cross succeeds at getting the gun , but this scene is quickly forgotten during the next scene .  at his house , cross is told that his neice , naomi ( gina ravera ) , has been missing for four days .  this provides the motivation for cross to find the killer , but we are never given a chance to establish the relationship between the two , and as a result , we can't sympathize with detective cross .  however , what makes kiss the girls slightly original is the introduction of one of the abductees . . .  before she is abducted .  dr . kate mctiernan ( ashley judd , the actress of the judd family ) is a smart , athletic woman , and because of these traits , becomes a target for casanova--what the serial killer likes to call himself .  because of these character-developing scenes , we care for mctiernan , making the abduction scene all that more suspenseful .  after being abducted , mctiernan wakes up and finds herself in a cell somewhere in the woods .  remembering that the killer gave her certain rules , she decides to break one of them by calling out .  when casanova comes to punish her , she breaks out and escapes by jumping over a waterfall .  after she is found , she begins to help cross find his neice .  from this moment on , kiss the girls takes on the form of every other serial killer film , as the two leads search for the rest of the victims held captive .  many people will compare this film to 1995's seven , another killer film starring morgan freeman , but i presume that the similarities are intentional .  the screenplay , by david klass , is adapted from the novel written by james patterson , and yet i don't quite see how this story could have worked in novel form .  what makes kiss the girls so good is the acting and the technical and visual impressiveness .  the cinematography , by aaron schneider , is reminiscient of seven , and sometimes i felt that many of the shots were trying too hard to impress us .  sometimes a simple shot is the best one .  however , many of the shots are stunning , and unlike seven , most of them take place during the day , in sunlight .  the scene when ashley judd is running through the forest is extremely well done , in more than one way .  the camera work is terrific , but the editing makes this scene work so well .  the chaotic and mtv-type cutting gives the audience a sense of confusion and unawareness , exactly what judd's character is experiencing .  however , the best aspect of kiss the girls is its actors .  morgan freeman is one of today's most powerful and believable actors .  detective cross is a very good character for him , although it is just a similar one to the character in seven .  because of freeman's powerful presence , he carries half the film by himself .  the other half is carried by ashley judd , one of today's most promising dramatic actresses .  in fact , her performance is better than freeman's , if that is even possible .  her character is more original than freeman's , and she handles it wonderfully .  we finally have a female character in a movie like this who does more than just scream .  the supporting cast is highly underdeveloped , but the cast members do as much as they can with it .  cary elwes portrays a cop in north carolina , and unfortunately has scraps for a character .  tony goldwyn fairs slightly better , but we don't really get to know his character either .  gina ravera gives a good performance , but again she isn't in many of the scenes .  so as a result of all these small supporting parts , the weight of the film lies on the two leads , and they do a phenomenal job .  some of the best acting of this genre , and some of the best acting of the year .  two other essential aspects of the film are quite good .  director gary fleder does a good job of controlling his actors , but the second half of the film loses believability , especially during the revelation of the killer .  he also doesn't handle the suspenseful scenes as a better director would have , losing a lot of tension during many scenes .  however , to his credit , he does manage a terrific first half .  part of the blame falls on david klass .  i'm sure the book developed many of the lesser characters more , but klass focuses on the two main parts .  while this may give the two leads more screentime , many of the small characters are one-dimensional , and the killer , when revealed , is extremely implausible .  thanks to the smart dialogue adapted from the novel , kiss the girls always seems intelligent .  none of the conversations are laughable , and all move the plot forward without seeming forced .  one of the biggest problems i had with the movie was the motive of the killer .  i blame this mainly on the casting director , because the killer's motive is because of rejection from women ( or so i assume from the opening monologue ) , but the killer himself is very attractive ( one of my friends is a , shall we say , big admirer of the killer ) .  kiss the girls is rated r for terror , violence , language , and suggested sex .  with all the implausibilities of this film , and with the mediocre second half , kiss the girls somehow manages to thoroughly entertain .  in fact , i had the urge to see it again just for the performances .  the cinematography adds a lot of mood to the already creepy tone , and the script is usually smart .  this is clearly one of those movies which rely on the acting to pull it through .  morgan freeman is possibly today's most convincing actor , and ashley judd adds another notch on her acting belt .  i must also say that i loved the ending .  the showdown between good and evil was quite tense , and the resolution of the scene makes almost anyone cheer .  perhaps it may not be possible , but most of the film isn't anyway .  
neg	there's not enough to sustain the comedy . 
neg	we never feel anything for these characters , and as a result the film is basically just a curiosity . 
neg	not only does the thoroughly formulaic film represent totally exemplify middle-of-the-road mainstream , it also represents glossy hollywood at its laziest . 
neg	in the small american town of meadowvale dr. anthony blake ( david gale , the imdb listing for this character is wrong it 's definitely dr. blake not dr. blakely ) is the director and founder of the famed ' psychological research institute ' and also host 's a local t.v. programme called ' independent thinkers ' . he uses this t.v. show to hypnotise the viewers and make them commit acts of violence . dr. blake has the help of a large brain with an evil face that uses it 's spinal cord as a tail thingy . usually the brain is just sitting in a tank , eats mice and the odd bad actor , each time it eats someone it gets much bigger . meanwhile at the local high - school gifted but troublesome teenager jim majelewski ( tom bresnahan ) has been caught putting sodium down the toilets . jim is sent to dr. blake at the pri for help with his attitude and behavioural problems . while there dr. blake hooks jim up to , well something i 'm not actually sure what . this whatever it is , is attached to the brain . at first jim is able to resist the brain 's mind control . the brain feels that jim is a threat to itself and it 's plans . once out of the pri jim starts having bizarre hallucinations and crashes his car . jim makes it to his waitress girlfriend janet ( cynthia preston as cyndy preston ) but is handed back to dr. blake 's assistant verna ( george buza ) soon after by officer marks ( harry booker ) . the brain wants to kill jim because he is the only one capable of withstanding it 's mind control techniques , and with ' independent thinkers ' going national the brain does n't want anything or anyone to stop it 's evil plan for world domination ! jim quickly realises that the brain is controlling the entire town and he alone must stop the brain , before it takes over the world ! directed by ed hunt who calls himself edward hunt here , the brain was n't as bad as i thought it was going to be . do n't get me wrong as it certainly is n't great either . the script by barry pearson tries a stab at satire with the brain washing and mind control by t.v. storyline . it moves along at a fair pace and is n't too boring . no explanation is given for the existence of the brain at all , it 's just there and that 's it we have to accept it . the story is a little choppy and never fully explores one single element , there 's the t.v. mind control , the brain itself , jim being hunted by the police & his misbehaviour and various other little bits and pieces here and there including a bizarre revelation regarding dr. blake that is n't explained at all . production wise this film looks cheap , and probably was cheap . the acting is n't great but i 've seen worse , and what is david gale doing in this ? in fact this role is similar to gale 's role in re - animator ( 1985 ) even down to his character 's deaths in both films . the brain itself at first sits in a tank and starts to grow whenever it eats someone and by the end it is pretty big . each stage is just made of rubber . it does n't look particularly good and is n't scary or creepy , just cheap . there 's no blood or gore in it apart from a blink and you 'll miss it decapitation . the nudity is provided by dr. blake 's assistant vivian ( christine kossak as christine kossack ) before she gets eaten . the brain had a certain entertainment value for me but i would think most people would dislike it . maybe worth a watch if you can see it on t.v. for free .
neg	i have done quite a few reviews on imdb and this film is unique in that i never saw the entire movie . it was so terribly stupid and unfunny that i just could n't sit through it -- though i tried . the biggest problem with this and any mel brooks movie i call " the mel quotient " . in other words , the better his movie , the less of him you see in the film . think about it -- the producers and young frankenstein were great films and he was barely in them at all . but , films like life stinks and space balls are chock full of mel and are pretty dopey movies ( yes , i did not like space balls -- but this is n't the place to talk about that ) . second , apart from cancer , rectal itch and mental retardation , i ca n't think of a less funny topic than homelessness . this is just a comedy breaker . think about it , folks . the funniest ( ? ) scene in the movie has mel making whoopee with leslie ann warren in a dumpster ! ! and this is funny in what way ?
neg	i understand the jokes quite well , they just are n't good . the show is horrible . i understand it , and that 's another horrible thing about it . the only cool character there ever was on the show was that one hobo in that one episode , but then i see the other episode including that episode and the show is horrible . it 's not funny , not funny ! i do n't want people to say " only smart people get it " because if they 're so smart why do they judge people they do n't even know and say that they 're not smart or intellectual enough to understand it ? it 's like saying " the sky is red " but never looking outside . but anyways , this is absolutely the worst show i have ever seen in my life , the jokes are terrible , i mean , you can understand them , they 're just horrible , her controversy is very lame , her fart jokes and other jokes on bodily fluids are really dumb and usually consist of really bad acting . i 'm not sure what these " smart " people see in this show , but judging others when they do n't even know anything about any of us is n't exactly a smart comment .
pos	neatly constructed thriller . 
neg	the happy bastard's quick movie review  the concept of enjoying a stupid comedy is best realized as keeping it stupid , really .  shift gears even once and the audience can be thrown miserably out of control .  sadly , that is the case with kingpin , a film directed by the farrelly brothers , the duo that brought us there's something about mary and dumb and dumber .  since the duo directed and didn't write the script , i can assume that's part of the problem .  the story seems good enough : a pro bowler in the 1970's by the name of roy munson ( woody harrelson ) is sitting on top of the world .  his popularity has gone through the roof and he's getting his career off the ground .  then , however , he runs into ed mccracken ( bill murray ) , a rival bowler with hardly any real consideration for , well , anything .  these two form an ill-timed relationship that involves risky betting , and , before roy sees it coming , ed's abandoned him and he's about to lose his hand in a bowling ball machine .  forward seventeen years later , where roy has become quite the loser , complete with mechanical hand , torn-up car , and , of course , the occasional knocking up of the ugly-ass landlord to avoid paying rent for a while .  however , he finds a glimmer of a hope upon a visit to a local bowling alley , where he runs into an amish kid named ishmael ( randy quaid ) , who has quite the bowling arm .  with the kid's help , he figures he can be known again , particularly at the biggest bowling tournament rapidly approaching in reno , nevada .  of course , the amish kid needs some coaxing , particularly when you consider , well , he's amish .  this leads to some of the best comic scenes in the film , such as roy's process of removing horseshoes or milking the cow .  finally , the duo get on the road and , along the way , pick up an additional helper- a beautiful hustler ( played by the gorgeous vanessa angel ) .  the main problem i had with kingpin wasn't the fact it wasn't funny .  in fact , it does have some rather hilarious scenes in it , such as the aformentioned above and roy's explanation of not having children ( something involving a cheese grater ? ) .  but that's just it- scenes .  there's a couple of really serious scenes that throw off the entire momentum of the movie , like the abuse angel takes from her hustler ex-boyfriend .  i mean , was this really necessary ?  couldn't have this been handled just a bit wackier ?  i mean , this is a comedy , why throw ethics in ?  particularly in a farrelly brothers vehicle , where hair gel can be easily mistaken ?  that really ruined it , however , and that's too bad .  the acting is top notch , especially from angel and murray , and the really funny scenes are worth noting .  still , if you're going to think dumb , think dumb all the way through , ok ?  at least the farrelly brothers got back on track with mary or i'd still be a little bit irked .  
neg	stars matthew perry and elizabeth hurley illicit more than a chuckle , and more jokes land than crash , but ultimately serving sara doesn't distinguish itself from the herd . 
pos	old-fashioned but thoroughly satisfying entertainment . 
neg	high crimes is a cinematic misdemeanor , a routine crime thriller remarkable only for its lack of logic and misuse of two fine actors , morgan freeman and ashley judd . 
pos	an enjoyable above average summer diversion . 
neg	talkiness isn't necessarily bad , but the dialogue frequently misses the mark . 
pos	if you open yourself up to mr . reggio's theory of this imagery as the movie's set . . . it can impart an almost visceral sense of dislocation and change . 
neg	a poky and pseudo-serious exercise in sham actor workshops and an affected malaise . 
pos	ramsay , as in ratcatcher , remains a filmmaker with an acid viewpoint and a real gift for teasing chilly poetry out of lives and settings that might otherwise seem drab and sordid . 
pos	what begins as a film in the tradition of the graduate quickly switches into something more recyclable than significant . 
pos	a marvelous performance by allison lohman as an identity-seeking foster child . 
pos	i must admit that i was a tad skeptical of " good will hunting " , based both on the previews and the first fifteen minutes of the film , in which the main character will hunting ( matt damon ) , an mit janitor in his early twenties , is discovered to be an einstein-level closet genius when he solves two extraordinarily difficult math problems overnight .  the only problem is that will is a tough street kid who's had his share of run-ins with the law , and before long he's being hauled in for assault after a parking lot fight .  professor lambeau ( stellan skarsgard ) , who had brought up the math problems in his lectures , tracks him down and strikes a deal with the police : will is to be released , provided he works with lambeau on his math research regularly and attends therapy sessions .  this sounds like the formula for mildly charming fluff , but " good will hunting " rises above its fairly mundane premise to deliver a poignant and clever drama .  a conflict gradually emerges between lambeau and will's therapist sean mcguire ( robin williams ) - lambeau wants to get will to use his brain , while sean wants him to listen to his heart , both of which he has been largely neglecting .  will finds that the former is much easier than the latter , so much so , in fact , that he gets bored with it and grows increasingly resistant to lambeau's attempts to recruit him into the academic lifestyle .  he also has his share of problems with his girlfriend skylar ( minnie driver ) , an mit student who is moving to california at the end of the school year and would like a reluctant will to come with her .  what makes " good will hunting " work so well , aside from the strong performances ( especially from damon and williams ) , is the depth of characterization and the representation of the conflicts in will's life .  the script's sympathies seem to lie more with sean mcguire than with lambeau , but neither of them is presented as completely right or wrong .  lambeau , while he may seem a little cold at times , is still written well enough that we like him as a character even when we're not sure if we like what he has to say .  and sean , for all his warm-heartedness , has , as lambeau and later will point out , not lived up to his full intellectual potential either ; the therapy sessions turn out to be just as revelatory for sean as they do for will .  will's reaction to this situation , and the way in which he slowly becomes more receptive to skylar and to sean , is presented in a believable fashion and in a way that forces the audience to consider all the characters' opinions , rather than setting up an obvious " right " and " wrong " side and beating them over the head with it .  for a film with such an extraordinary character , " good will hunting " presents itself as remarkably ordinary ; it achieves the difficult task of making the next albert einstein into an everyman , a character to whom the audience can easily relate and who must make choices similar to those that almost everyone faces at one time or another .  this film gives us real drama when it so easily could have given us merely melodrama , by having the government kidnap will to use him in covert spy missions or introducing some other equally far-fetched situation .   " good will hunting " also has its share of fun humor , such as when will , in an early therapy session , pretends to be hypnotized and smoothly parodies the alien abduction scenarios that have become so well known in popular culture .  and in the one scene in which government agents do in fact appear , will blows them off with a hilariously scathing accusation of human rights violations in africa .  will's relationship with his friends , most notably chucky ( ben affleck ) , is usually rather amusing , if somewhat crude ( the film has 100+ uses of the 'f' word , which was most likely the reason for its r-rating ) , and lends itself well to the development of will's character .  add all this to the fact that " good will hunting " even manages to pull off an uplifting happy ending without getting excessively sentimental , and you might be wondering why i haven't given this film four stars .  well , for one thing , no matter how well damon and affleck , who wrote the screenplay , and director gus van sant pull it off , the story is still rather contrived and not particularly original .  there are also a few scenes that did feel a bit formulaic , including one that was supposed to be emotional but really just seemed like the obligatory crying scene for any movie involving therapy sessions .  still , " good will hunting " takes its premise a lot farther than i thought it would , and is definitely one of the better personal dramas i have seen in the last few years , and as of right now it stands as one of the top five on my list of '97 films .  
neg	it's so badly made on every level that i'm actually having a hard time believing people were paid to make it . 
pos	cox creates a fluid and mesmerizing sequence of images to match the words of nijinsky's diaries . 
neg	georges polti once wrote a paper called " the thirty-six dramatic situations , " in which he asserted the fact that all drama could be defined by no more than thirty-six different situations .  this may be the modern restatement of the biblical prophecy from ecclesiastes , " there's nothing new under the sun . "  the faculty , the latest movie by from dusk till dawn director robert rodriguez , certainly proves this in typical hollywood fashion .  there's not a measureable fraction of original material in this unworthy outing .  drawing elements from both the puppet masters and invasion of the body snatchers , screenwriter kevin williamson ( of scream 2 credit ) gives us a horror tale set in middle america ( ohio ) one eventful fall .  making use of a cast of unusually stock characters , williamson designs an alien invasion that will not be done independence day-style but rather " through the back door . "  parasitic aliens take over the faculty of a run-down high school and soon have infested most of the student body , leaving it up to the ensemble of principal characters to win the day .  the lack of gusto is the movie's major stumbling block .  even though the genre has seen movies that have a lack for quality such as this , they've been saved by an energetic approach .  this casts more than a shadow of a doubt on williamson's ability , who enjoyed success with the wes craven-directed scream but couldn't pull anything solid in for this outing or i know what you did last summer .  although he designs the faculty with more of a sci-fi bent than his typical slasher picture , it still comes down to the same results : throw the stock characters in a steel cage match and see who comes out alive .  on that level , the main roles are played by virtual unknowns .  only the recognizeable elijah wood ( deep impact ) is at the front ; other than that , the screen veterans are saved for the minor roles of the alien teachers .  perhaps williamson has it in mind to champion these up-and-comers to the fame that their scream and last summer counterparts achieved ; but to do that , they'd all need to star in their own wb television show about the horrors of puberty a la " dawson's creek . "  needless to say the acting is far from top notch , nor does necessity ask that it should be .  there is a moment or two of genuine horror , but unfortunately williamson and rodriguez did not take the story far enough in the sci-fi direction to make any use of it .  in sum , the faculty was just one long shot that did not pay off .  
neg	carry on at your convenience is all about the goings-on in the factory of a toilet manufacturer , wc boggs ( kenneth williams ) .  once they have won an order to manufacture 1000 bidets in two months and charles coote ( charles hawtrey ) has designed a suitable model , the factory employees set to work but are interrupted by union representative vic spanner ( kenneth cope ) and friend bernie hulke ( bernard bresslaw ) who call them out on strikes on the slightest pretext .  meanwhile , chief foreman sid plummer ( sid james ) is growing tired of his wife beattie ( hattie jacques ) and her budgie .  he would much rather live next door with fellow boggs worker chloe moore ( joan sims ) but once he discovers that the budgie can predict the winners of horse races , he is over the moon and flush with money .  his daughter , myrtle plummer ( jacki piper ) , is going out with wc's son lewis boggs ( richard o'callaghan ) and this causes conflict on the staff day out to the seaside when vic spanner vies for her attentions .  in the end , if the strike does not cease , boggs will have to close down his factory , but the support of a group of women led by coote's wife-to-be and spanner's mother , agatha spanner ( renee houston ) , try to resolve the situation .  also , sid realises that his budgie has caused him nothing but trouble since it started predicting horse race winners .  there are some good performances , as usual , from sid james and kenneth williams in their standard roles .  charles hawtrey is third billing but only appears in a few scenes .  his part is mildly amusing .  richard o'callaghan is appealing as bogg's stuck-up son , patsy rowlands is funny as miss withering , bogg's assistant , and renee houston is terrific in her small part as agatha .  however , sole acting honours go to hattie jacques as beattie plummer .  although her character is not directly involved with the main storyline , she manages to input a great deal of pathos and feeling into her character .  a marvellous performance from a marvellous actress .  the film suffers from annoying performances by bernard bresslaw and especially kenneth cope .  in his carry on debut , cope overdoes his role as spanner making him so annoying as to be unfunny .  joan sims returns as the love interest ( instead of barbara windsor ) .  sims' 'usual' part as the downtrodden wife was taken by hattie jacques .  additionally , bill maynard as fred moore is very poor .  this carry on movie tries it best to entertain the viewer : - the locations and wealth of characters are appealing .  however , the toilet humour becomes tiresome very quickly and some of the performances leave a lot to be desired .  this movie does not know where it is going .  it was made in 1971 and talbot rothwell the scriptwriter seems to be in two minds whether to go for 'bluer' jokes or to maintain the 'innocent' jokes success of most of its predecessors .  that is why this film suffers .  a minor carry on film whose major asset is the performance by hattie jacques .  the new 'minor-regulars' such as o'callaghan and piper are not able to enliven the movie and the toilet humour becomes humourless after a while .  
neg	full of flatulence jokes and mild sexual references , kung pow ! is the kind of movie that's critic-proof , simply because it aims so low . 
pos	here is a vh1 behind the music special that has something a little more special behind it : music that didn't sell many records but helped change a nation . 
pos	i spied this short on a dvd of best new zealand shorts , all great but the french doors was amazing . it starts off slow and you wonder if there is anything going to happen . just as you relax into the hum drum of home renovation , the most spookiest thing happens .   eeeekkk , i wanted to stop watching , but i was glued .   the films dips into the primal fear of the dark and with little , if not any , special effects . it chills you right to the bone . a simple yet brilliant concept opened up all those memories of when i was young and dream't up the most improbably but spooky situations .   the film makers visual style are bang on and the lead character takes you convincingly through the story . it is a quality short that i have n't seen in quite some time .   the french doors has all the hallmarks of a great feature , alas it finishes after ten minutes or so . never the less a great ending that begs you to want to know more .   loved it and well done and thanks for the ride . these new zealanders are really turning out the talent . a new fan .
pos	james l . brooks , one of the developers of the simpsons and director of broadcast news , returns to the big screen with this entertaining , if slightly flawed comedy .  nicholson plays melvin udall , probably the most horrible person ever on the screen .  he's racist , homophobic , and never has a good word to say to anyone .  so , nobody talks to him , except waitress carol conelly ( t . v  sitcom star hunt , who was last seen in twister , 1996 ) .  naturally , udall , conelly and gay neighbor simon bishop ( kinnear ) who nicholson hates , all hit it off in the end .  like good will hunting ( 1997 ) and titanic ( 1997 ) , even though the outcome is completely obvious , as good as it gets is an enjoyable , funny and warm comedy .  nicholson is hilarious as melvin , churning out insults with superb relish .  only nicholson could get away with the lines that melvin delivers .  hunt is also good as waitress carol , and easily rises to the challenge of nicholson .  there's also ( thankfully ) a bit of chemistry between them .  kinnear , as the gay neighbor , seems to have a slightly underwritten role , he's more of a plot convience than a character .  although his performance is good , his character just seems to exist to help melvin and carol come together .  in fact , the scene stealer is simon's dog , who is funnier than nicholson .  but then again , pets are always cute on screen .  providing solid support is cuba gooding , jnr ( jerry maguire , 1996 ) and yeardly smith ( who is the voice of lisa simpsons in the simpsons ) although gooding isn't as good as is character in maguire , he is still fun .  he overacts a little , but not so much as to be annoying .  smith is also good , although she has a fairly small role .  even director lawrence kasdan ( body heat , 1981 ) makes an appearance as a doctor .  but this is primarily nicholsons film , and every scene he's in , he's steals it .  he's character is so hateful , though , it's amazing that anyone talks to him at all , especially carol .  and this is the films main problem .  it's totally unbelievable that carol would ever consider liking melvin .  she doesn't fall in love with him naturally , the film forces her to fall in love with him .  also , melvins character seems to go too nice , too quickly .  i would doubt anyone with a character like melvins would be able to turn back to a nice , loving person .  it would take a helluva long time , much longer than this film would like to make out .  brooks direction is good , though , if a bit average , but he usually manages to get an emotion out of the audience .  he handles the comedy scenes better than the sentimental ones ( he tends to pile on to much schmaltz ) but generally he's good .  there's also a nice soundtrack by veteran composer hans zimmer .  but , generally , as good as it gets achieves what it sets out to do , which is to make the audience feel good by the end of the movie .  the movie is a bit overlong , but nicholson is such good fun that the running time passes by pretty quickly .  overall , as good as it gets is a fun movie , even though it may be unbelivable , and certainly worth seeing ( if just for jack nicholsons performance . )  not quite as good as it gets ( pardon the bad joke ) , but still good fun .  
pos	a rare and lightly entertaining look behind the curtain that separates comics from the people laughing in the crowd . 
neg	it 's been a long time since i last saw a movie this bad .. the acting is very average , the story is horribly boring , and i 'm at a loss for words as to the execution . it was completely unoriginal . o , and this is as much a comedy as clint eastwood 's a pregnant schwarzenegger !   one of the first scenes ( the one with the television show - where the hell are you ? ) got it right - the cast was 80 % of let 's face it - forgotten actors . if they were hoping for a career relaunch , then i think it might never happen with this on their cv ! the script had the potential , but neither 80 % of the actors nor the director ( who 's an actor and clearly should stick to being an actor ) pulled it off . fred durst was the only one who seemed better than any of the rest . i 'm sorry , but if you ever consider watching this - i highly recommend you turn to something less traumatic , because not only it 's a total loss of time , but also a weak example of what bad cinema looks like .
neg	everything about this ninth trek movie seems on the cheap , from the roger corman-grade special effects to its highly derivative and ugly ad campaign ( the poster is nearly identical to that of star trek vi : the undiscovered country ) .  but piller's not-quite-half-baked screenplay should ultimately claim responsibility for insurrection's failure .  i'm about to give the same advice to rick berman and co .  as i've given to the financiers of james bond movies : it's time to breathe life into this workhorse by hiring solid genre writers and a real director .   ( while we're at it , put that visor back on laforge ! )  for three hundred years , the ba'ku species ( who look just like humans ) have lived on a ringed-planet that might as well be called the fountain of youth .  six hundred of them occupy the briar patch , the area affected by metaphasic radition , a positive energy that reverses the aging process in the elderly .  but evil ru'afo ( this is probably abraham's last stop before performing " amadeus " at a dinner theatre near you ) , leader of the son'a ( who look just like burn victims after reconstructive surgery ) , wants to relocate the ba'ku and movie his people onto the briar patch in their place , in order to replenish his dying breed .  the federation is all for this , but picard feels this is a direct violation of the prime directive : to not interfere with the development of an alien race .   ( never mind that the ba'ku didn't exactly evolve-they went wandering in the universe one day and stumbled upon the magic world . )  every time frakes gives an interview lately , he seems to top whatever ludicrous statement he last gave regarding this installment .  he has called it a comedy , a thinking man's picture , a throwback to the old series , and , most grievously , he has likened it to a john ford western .   ( i presume that's some john ford he went to school with , not the director of the searchers . )  he has also gone on record as saying paramount recut the film from his version .  that's no excuse-someone generated this footage .  muddy cinematography and sitcom sets are the least of its problems ; star trek : insurrection appears to have been beamed in from the planet plotholia .  consider such curiosities . . .  picard's love interest , anij ( donna murphy ) , can slow things down by staring at them ( such as a waterfall or falling rocks ) -her scientific explanation for this ?   " don't ask . "  worf gets a pimple ( he's re-experiencing klingon puberty thanks to the time-defying atmosphere ) , laforge regains his eyesight ( trust me , levar burton's real eyes are scarier than those electronic lenses he wore in first contact ) and troi brags about her firm boobs , but picard remains as bald as an android's butt .  most suspiciously , what exactly is the problem with letting this endangered race have a little fun in the sun ?  the filmmakers cloud the issue with some nonsense about a family feud of sorts , and they also turn ru'afo into a completely power-mad superfreak , just so the characters will have something to do in the climax .   ( and if you've seen return of the jedi , you've seen the ending of this movie . )  didn't picard himself previously disobey the prime directive when he prevented the borg from assimilating millions ?  frakes lucked out with first contact , and repeat viewings of that film reveal the seeds of what went wrong in his direction of insurrection : he has no sense of comic timing , and he mines for acting chemistry where none exists .   ( take a look at the painful " troi gets drunk " scene in fc and you'll get the general idea of insurrection's unsuccessfully jokey and hollow tone . )  even the worst shatner and co .  treks , like the final frontier , maintained a watchability thanks to the effortless , charming comaraderie between kirk , spock , and bones .  neither first contact nor insurrection has any idea what to do with crusher ( gates mcfadden , whom i must say maintains a fabulous physique ) , troi , or laforge .  and all three next generation films spend too much time on data , who is the franchise's answer to urkel .  need a cheap laugh ?  have data say something sexual , or start singing , or lift up a four hundred pound boulder as if it's the hunk of styrofoam it really is .  here's my proposed title for number 10 : data star data trek : data data data data data .  in this movie , data will become preoccupied with learning to blow his nose , while crusher and troi watch silently from 500 yards away and laforge points his sinister gaze at the android in doubly robotic observation .  star trek : insurrection had one nice , eerie , silent moment that hints at a better , darker film .  i'm not saying all of them should be star trek ii : the wrath of khan , but this one boldly went where no movie should go again .  
neg	an experience like baby geniuses can have certain effects on an average moviegoer .  you may be scarred for life after seeing this petrified piece of garbage , which is so disarmingly horrible that it may cause you to ponder it's hollywood existence .  when i think of the screenwriters behind this film , i picture a room full of monkeys .  the monkeys are pounding on their typewriters while scratching themselves .  all of the monkeys combine their efforts , hop in a cab and take the finished product downtown to director bob clark's office .  the designated monkey explains the plot by jumping up and down on clark's desk while flailing his arms and shrieking .  the director appears to be deep in thought , until he slams his fist down on the desktop and exclaims `i love it ! ! ! '  the writing behind this project is embarrassing .  for your amusement , i will explain the plot .  dr . kinder ( kathleen turner ) and dr . heep ( christopher lloyd ) are two of the cold-hearted executives at the baby geniuses institute , where peculiar studies are going on .  as the story goes , there is an ancient myth explaining that babies ( ages 2 and under ) know all the secrets of the world from previous life experiences .  when they move past this phase , they become like any other drooling toddler .  kinder and heep want to unlock the secrets using their test babies , namely little sylvester ( sly for short ) , who can break in or out of any given situation so efficiently that he would be right at home on the mission : impossible team .  there is so much crap derived from this premise , despite the fact it's virtually identical to the plot in look who's talking !   ( a far superior film in any league ) .  you will be able to determine the quality of the film by examining the opening scene .  sylvester has broken out and managed to elude several security guards with his amazing intellect and kung-fu tactics .  question : it's obvious the babies are super-smart , but why are they able to fight like jackie chan ? ?  the adults in this film are furiously beaten by these youngsters in diapers .  it's a shock when writers will stoop this low just to draw cheap laughs by using john hughes' familiar home alone formula .  i also found it disturbing that the babies in this film have attitude and endless 90's knowledge , quoting numerous movies and insulting their adult captors .  the effects in baby geniuses ( similar to the talking animals in babe ) are pathetic , the editing is a disaster , and the jokes are never funny .  the only reason viewers may avoid vomiting is the argument that the babies are `cute' .  i suppose they are .  i can admit to smiling a few times because the babies were cute .  other instances , though , i was howling in laughter due to the inane stupidity of the script .  there are supporting characters who have no personality whatsoever ; their entire existence is based on punch lines .  peter macnicol and kim cattrall , as an unwilling couple who have adopted sylvester's twin , are both miscast .  then again , i don't suppose any performer could handle the uneven material without looking incredibly stupid .  meanwhile , dom deluise plays a fellow who gets hit in the crotch with a monkey wrench ( hahaha ) .  i would avoid baby geniuses at all costs .  instead of watching this , i would recommended filling your bathtub with cement and going snorkeling .  or perhaps you would consider going diving in shark-infested waters .  anything to avoid this painful movie .  the final line in the film , spoken by the bratty sylvester , is `if they think i'm doing the sequel for less than $20 mill , they're nuts' .  sequel ?  please have mercy .  
pos	the 700 club gives a great perspective on world events . some have described it as disingenuous or cheesy . i find the program to be informative and inspirational . it is only natural for many to throw mud on a program that has proved to be so successful . there are very few shows that can point to a 40 year track record of success in the world of television media and the 700 club is one of them . while mr. robertson may have been wrong to say that someone should be assassinated , i find it curious that so many people will literally trip over themselves to hop on the bandwagon of criticism . i have certainly said some foolish things in my life . i would certainly be willing to forgive mr. robertson since he puts out a great show .
pos	some of the most inventive silliness you are likely to witness in a movie theatre for some time . 
pos	an effective portrait of a life in stasis -- of the power of inertia to arrest development in a dead-end existence . 
pos	it's fairly solid--not to mention well edited so that it certainly doesn't feel like a film that strays past the two and a half mark . 
neg	call it a road trip for the walking wounded .  stellan skarsg ? rd plays such a convincingly zombified drunken loser that it's difficult to spend nearly two hours of screen time in his smelly , boozed-out presence .  yet this ever-reliable swedish actor adds depth and significance to the otherwise plodding and forgettable aberdeen , a sentimental and painfully mundane european drama .  playwright august strindberg built his career on families and relationships paralyzed by secrets , unable to express their longings until the hour is far too late .  that's an accurate reflection of what aberdeen strives for , focusing on the pairing of an alcoholic father , tomas ( skarsg ? rd ) and his alienated , openly hostile yuppie daughter , kaisa ( lena headey , gossip ) .  they haven't spoken in years , and wouldn't even be making the long trip from norway to aberdeen , scotland by automobile if it weren't for kaisa's mother ( charlotte rampling , under the sand ) rotting away in a hospital bed from cancer .  in a soap opera twist , mother has only a few days to live .   ( only in the movies , right ? )  too blitzed to even step foot on a plane , tomas hits the open road with kaisa .  loathing each other all the while , they make periodic stops for tomas to puke on the dashboard or pass out -- whenever he isn't muttering what a rotten kid she turned out to be .  despite his sloshed viewpoint , tomas recognizes that the apple hasn't fallen very far from the tree .  kaisa gets nosebleeds from snorting coke , sabotages her personal relationships through indifference , and is unable to restrain her quick and vindictive temper .  ain't they a pair ?  unable to find true notes of unspoken familial empathy in the one-note and repetitively bitchy dialogue , screenwriters kristin amundsen and hans petter moland fabricate a series of contrivances to propel events forward -- lost money , roving street hooligans looking for drunks to kick around , nosy cops , and flat tires all figure into the schematic and convenient narrative .  by the time they reach the hospital , it's time to unveil the secrets from a dark past that are not only simplistic devices that trivialize the father-daughter conflict , they're also the mainstays of many a bad strindberg wannabe .  this revelation exists purely for its own sake .  aberdeen doesn't know where else to go .  weak , unimaginative casting thwarts the pivotal role of kaisa .  if lena headey were a stronger actress , perhaps aberdeen could have been able to coast on the performances and moody , haunting cinematography ( rendering norway into its own pastoral ghost world -- the reference to a certain superior american indie flick intentional ) .  headey's too busy acting , using her face and furrowed brow to convey every last twitch of insouciance .  if she were paying any attention to skarsg ? rd , maybe she'd figure out that doing less can reveal so much more .  it's worthwhile to compare aberdeen to an earlier film released in 2001 , jonathan nossiter's captivating signs & wonders .  it's not just because skarsg ? rd and rampling played disturbed parental figures in both films ( they're not bound by ceremonial wedlock in aberdeen ) .  the differences in the way their characters were presented is significant .  in aberdeen , rampling is a luminous diva , preening and static in her hospital bed .  despite skarsg ? rd's solid performance as tomas , his pathetic drunk is never given much of a chance to emote anything besides catatonic sorrow .  there's genuine ferocity and sexually charged frisson during their understated confrontations in signs & wonders , allowing them to suggest a gray zone of complications that accompany torn romance and years of stifled curiosity .  nossiter's film thoroughly explores this neurotic territory in addition to delving into the americanization of greece and the use of mysticism as an illusion to deflect pain .  if signs & wonders sometimes feels overloaded with ideas , at least it's willing to stretch beyond what we've come to expect from traditional drama .  aberdeen is never half so ambitious , content to sleepwalk through the rhythms and timing of other movies .  when did character driven stories stop paying attention to the complexities of real life ?  the depressing answer can be found in lawrence kasdan's trite but occasionally useful grand canyon , where steve martin's hollywood mogul pronounces , " all of life's riddles are answered in the movies ! "  even foreign films are taking that advice to heart .  
neg	a disappointing biography about the homosexual relationship of two famous 19th century french poets .  the film managed to remove all the poetry from the poets and instead concentrated on their abrasive personalities .  the result is merely an academic exercise , leaving an emotional vacuum that it couldn't build on to show them as the poets they were .  on paper , this shouldn't have been so terrible -- it had a talented director in agnieszka holland ( " the secret garden " ) , a proven screenwriter in christopher hampton ( dangerous liaisons ) , and a capable cast .  but the film was done in by its inept script , the unappealing way the film was directed , and the miscasting of leonardo dicaprio as rimbaud .  i found his performance to be the most risible one in the film , with him acting more like a teenage brat than a young genius , spouting obsenities without giving a hint that a true poet lies behind that facade .  he , especially , looked bad because david thewlis as paul verlaine looked so good despite the turgid dialogue that was thrust upon him and how thin a character he was forced to be .  but when the two of them were together , it looked like a mismatch .  leonardo's rimbaud only made the young poet look petulant and crude , yet we know from rimbaud's poetry , that he must have had something going for him because his poetry was awe inspiring .  the film opens in post-revolutionary france in 1871 , the 16-year-old rimbaud has sent the established symbolist poet verlaine a letter with his poems .  he accepts verlaine's praises and invitation to be a house guest in his splendid paris home , and rimbaud leaves his sullen farm in rural charleville .  once there , rimbaud is disappointed in the bourgeoisie household , has an immediate conflict with verlaine's busty 18-year-old wife mathilde ( romane ) , and finds to his regret that the drunken verlaine loves his rich wife for her body and that he lives off her family's money , even though he has nothing else in common with her .  when verlaine states , " poets can learn from one another , " rimbaud replies in a haughty tone , " only if they're bad poets . "  he will continue to treat the older poet like dirt for the rest of their relationship .  verlaine proves to be weak-willed , beating his wife regularly , and plays just as despicable a character as rimbaud .  when mathilde's father kicks rimbaud out of the house , verlaine finds him in a rooming house and the two become lovers .  it's a real downer to watch this story unfold into a series of obnoxious behavior patterns on the part of the two poets , which leads them to traveling together and mathilde asking for a divorce .  in brussels , verlaine gets arrested for sodomy and spends two years in jail .  while rimbaud becomes angered at the literary world and never writes another poem after he becomes 19 .  he instead goes to north africa and becomes an adventurer and a gun-runner , and after ten years there , comes home with a tumor on his knee and dies a changed man at the age of 37 .  the hopeless relationship between the two is what the picture covers in detail and that was not very satisfying .  the film ends on a whimper . . . with  verlaine talking with rimbaud's sister about her brother and the poems of his he still possesses , which the sister wants destroyed so as not to embarrass the family or ruin the name of her deceased brother if published .  this film was especially annoying because rimbaud's poems are filled with a visionary tenseness that are not even approached in this film , as the film only manages to skim the surface of the lives of these poets and completely ignores the value of their poetry .  i have no idea what the filmmaker was trying to say in this film , but whatever it was , it just didn't work .  it certainly didn't bring any light into understanding what rimbaud meant to modern poetry and why he earned the reputation as the so-called father of modern poetry .  
pos	an enthralling , playful film that constantly frustrates our desire to know the 'truth' about this man , while deconstructing the very format of the biography in a manner that derrida would doubtless give his blessing to . 
neg	a non-britney person might survive a screening with little harm done , except maybe for the last 15 minutes , which are as maudlin as any after-school special you can imagine . 
neg	a mimetic approximation of better films like contempt and 8 1/2 . 
neg	for casual moviegoers who stumble into rules expecting a slice of american pie hijinks starring the kid from dawson's creek , they'll probably run out screaming . 
neg	synopsis : when a meteorite crashlands in the arizona desert , community college professors ira kane ( duchovny ) and harry block ( jones ) are first on the scene .  they discover that an alien lifeform has arisen from the rock and is evolving at an amazing rate .  soon the army , advised by dr allison reed ( moore ) , moves in and forces kane and block out .  but when the aliens begin to menace society , it may take the scientists' combined efforts to stop them before they terminate the evolution of another lifeform : humanity .  review : " evolution " certainly has the ingredients for a decent comedy .  it's directed by reitman , clearly trying to parlay his " ghostbusters " success into a twenty-first-century counterpart .  it stars duchovny , and although one might question his judgment in lampooning his " x-files " character so soon after leaving the tv series , it should certainly provide him with plenty of ammunition .  and then there's moore , who may not have much prior experience in comedy , but who has certainly proven her ability as an actress .  a shame , then , that it all deteriorates into such a hopelessly unfunny morass .   " evolution " is a movie more concerned with its special effects ( which are quite good ) than anything resembling a consistently funny script .  it has its moments ( a scene in which jones' body is invaded by an alien is particularly entertaining ) , but there are embarrassingly long stretches that are utterly devoid of humour .  moore is totally wasted , her clumsy shtick getting very old , very fast .  duchovny has stunningly little in the way of material to work with .  and the story is so formulaic , it could have been written by monkeys .  part of what made " ghostbusters " so wonderful was a combination of a great script and characters the audience could root for .   " evolution " is so mind-numbingly tedious that it's difficult not to start cheering for the aliens .  
pos	no matter what you suspect , this isn't your usual action thriller .  the usual suspects is an intelligent crime mystery story from up-and-coming director bryan singer .  it's one of those movies that , after everything is revealed rapid-fire at the end , you immediately want to rewind and watch again because earlier scenes take on a new light .  plot twists a-go-go are what you get here -- i gave up trying to figure out the mystery of keyser soze after awhile and just sat back and waited for them to reveal it to me .  keyser soze is a name you'll hear at least a hundred times if you watch the usual suspects and for good reason .  it's not only the name of the mysterious ( and possibly even mythical ) crime boss in the movie , it also sums up the movie -- " keyser soze " in latin means " an intelligent crime mystery story from up-and-coming director bryan singer . "  or maybe i shouldn't have bought a foreign-language dictionary from the same company that makes those 99-cent encyclopedias sold in supermarkets .  at the movie's opening , a group of known criminals are brought in for a police lineup , including mcmanus ( stephen baldwin ) , keaton ( gabriel byrne ) , fenster ( benicio del toro ) , buckney ( kevin pollack ) and verbal ( kevin spacey , winner of the best supporting actor academy award{symbol 153 \ f " times new roman " \ s 10 \ h} for his performance in the movie ) .  verbal is so-named because he frequently rambles on about anything or nothing .  he also earns his name as the movie's narrator , spouting memorable lines like " the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn't exist " ( although , obviously , he does exist -- what else could explain kris kross having a comeback in 1996 ? ) while being interrogated by police detective chazz palminteri ( any actor with multiple z's in their name is okay in my book ) .  we see the story unfold as spacey retells it .  the five felons , upon being released from the lineup , get their revenge on the police by exposing a corrupt taxi service -- whereby elite criminals pay to be smuggled through town in cop cars -- and stealing all the money and drugs in the car .  it's a definite case of male bonding for the five criminals , who later find out they were brought together by the unseen keyser soze , who sends a minion to them with an offer they can't refuse .  namely , they have to destroy soze's main competitors in organized crime by infiltrating a ship , shooting a bunch of people , burning all the drugs and stealing $91 million cash .  spacey does a terrific job of bringing his seemingly unintelligent " cripple " character to life and baldwin , byrne , palminteri and the rest make for a good supporting cast .  the usual suspects is one of those movies that deftly mixes scenes of violence and explosions with an underlying sense of mystery and suspense , keeping the viewer guessing until the very end -- and then still leaving a few details open for scrutiny and discussion .  i suppose all that would be cleared up if i really had rewound the movie and watched it again instead of changing the channel and wondering in disbelief what the hell kris kross was doing on mtv .  a different mystery , i guess , which may turn into a _murder_ mystery if that video ever comes on again . . .  
pos	the closest thing to the experience of space travel
neg	stale , futile scenario . 
neg	has little on its mind aside from scoring points with drag gags . 
pos	a film that will enthrall the whole family . 
pos	 " the emperor's new clothes " begins with a simple plan . . . . well , at least that's the plan . 
neg	the film is worth watching only if you stop it after half an hour . it starts of with funny conversations in a bar and makes one expect a good , funny story is to come . well , i can tell you it will not come . it will deteriorate in minutes into a movie that challenges your patience as well as your feelings of shame for the actors to an extend you will probably not be pleased to witness .   in an interview i heard that the director wanted to express in this film the feeling of a loss of identity that , according to him , the majority of the people in this globalizing world experience . i was amazed to hear that . am i living in the same world he lives in ? ok a lot of people do walk around in the same clothes as mine and listen to the same music and all , but that does n't make me feel like i am losing my identity . what does khrzhanosvky think , that we are not more than the clothes we wear and the movies we watch ? am i shortsighted or is he ? well my vote : the good start of the movie saves it from getting a 1 , a decent 4 is my conclusion .
neg	an atonal estrogen opera that demonizes feminism while gifting the most sympathetic male of the piece with a nice vomit bath at his wedding . 
pos	sly , sophisticated and surprising . 
neg	lacks heart , depth and , most of all , purpose . 
neg	wow , a film without any redeeming qualities whatsoever .  i'm amazed that someone thought this was a story that must be told on screen .  many blacks in hollywood complain that they are not nominated for awards based on their race .  i think first they need to concentrate their energy on themselves , and stop making movies which makes them look like nothing more than sex-crazed buffoons .  even i'm offended by it .  bill bellamy is a " player " which means he sleeps with a lot of women and lies to them .  what a pleasant main character .  one day , his friends decide that they want to find out how to be a player .  why they decide this " one day " i have no idea .  how many years have they been friends and why all of a sudden would they want to learn ?  anyway , bellamy agrees to teach , and his wonderful lesson to his friends consists of letting them ride in his car while he rides from house to house having sex with women .  this is the bulk of the film folks , guys riding from house to house , one keeps getting out to have sex , while the others sit in the car .  since russell simmons is producer , and since the official title of the film is " def jam's how to be a player " , i was ready to be jumping up and down and stomping my feet and beating the person next to me because of the comedy .  amazingly , aside from gilbert gottfried's 90 seconds of screen time , there was no comedy in the film for me to express myself in such a manner .  instead of jokes , there's just an endless stream of profanity and naked breasts ( and naked breasts aren't so bad , but naked breasts alone don't make a good movie ) .  be sure to bring along your ebonics to english dictionary as well .  gilbert gottfried's character serves as one in his very brief appearance , asking for explanations as to what is being said .  they should have brought him along for the entire film .  [r]  
neg	the only surprise is that heavyweights joel silver and robert zemeckis agreed to produce this ; i assume the director has pictures of them cavorting in ladies' underwear . 
neg	this version of h . g . wells' time machine was directed by h . g . wells' great-grandson . they should have found orson welles' great-grandson . 
pos	director kapur is a filmmaker with a real flair for epic landscapes and adventure , and this is a better film than his earlier english-language movie , the overpraised elizabeth . 
neg	the truth about charlie is that it's a brazenly misguided project . 
pos	the film has an infectious enthusiasm and we're touched by the film's conviction that all life centered on that place , that time and that sport . 
neg	woody allen can write and deliver a one liner as well as anybody . but i had a lot of problems with this movie . 
pos	the film may appear naked in its narrative form . . . but it goes deeper than that , to fundamental choices that include the complexity of the catholic doctrine
neg	mildly amusing . 
neg	when [de palma's] bad , he's really bad , and femme fatale ranks with the worst he has done . 
neg	i felt trapped and with no obvious escape for the entire 100 minutes . 
pos	when i left the theater after seeing david lynch's " lost highway , " i remarked to a fellow movie-goer , " i feel like someone just sucked my brains out through my nose and put them back in through my ears . "  in his first feature film in five years , lynch delivers a film second only to his debut picture " eraserhead " on the weirdness scale .  you won't " know " what happened when it's over , though there are certainly enough clues with which to make some reasonable guesses .  it is difficult to describe the plot of this film , because it depends partly on how you interpret it .  i can , however , describe what we see on the screen : l . a . jazz saxophonist fred madison ( bill pullman ) and his wife renee ( patricia arquette ) , whom he clearly suspects of infidelity , receive a series of videotapes apparently filmed inside their house while they were asleep .  they are , naturally enough , more than a little frightened and confused , and it doesn't help matters any when " mystery man " ( robert blake ) approaches fred at a party and proceeds to call himself on the telephone at the madisons' house in a scene that is at once hilarious and unnerving .  the next morning , fred finds another videotape which , to his ( and our ) surprise , shows him brutally murdering renee in their bedroom .  he is convicted of her murder and sent to death row , where he inexplicably disappears one night and is replaced by a young mechanic named pete dayton ( balthazar getty ) .  the perplexed prison officials release dayton , whose life begins to intersect with fred in a number of ways - most notably his affair with alice wakefield ( arquette again ) , a blonde who is otherwise renee's spitting image , and another encounter with the mystery man .  i would be giving away a little too much to reveal any more , but suffice it to say that lynch doesn't offer any neat wrap ? ups , nor does he put a lid on the metaphysical confusion : the cinematic demons of " lost highway " are out in full force from beginning to end .  this description might make " lost highway " sound like a giddy exercise in haywire surrealism , but in fact , while there are traces of lynch's weird sense of humor , this film is anything but giddy most of the time .  on the contrary , lost highway is a dark and perplexing mystery that takes lynch's previous excursions into murder and intrigue one step farther .  the film does not revolve around a character investigating a mystery ; rather , the character * is * the mystery .  there are recurring and at times deeply disturbing images of suspicion , distrust , and infidelity thoughout the film that seem to indicate a deluded , fractured psyche at the root of all the bizarre goings-on here .  we , the audience , are left to puzzle out whose psyche it is that is driving this ( probably fred's , in my opinion ) and what , in that case , the other characters and events are meant to represent .  all of this proceeds , appropriately , in lynch's typically slow-paced , idiosyncratic style .  as is often the case , lynch relies on sound , imagery , and mood more than on dialogue and action to tell his story , and in " lost highway " it works perfectly .  there are scenes when the camera lingers on fred's blank expression as he drifts uncomfortably down a hallway , or on his pained face in his prison cell while the haunting strains of this mortal coil's " song to the siren " can be heard faintly in the background ; nothing is technically " happening " in these scenes , yet they present a vivid picture of a man losing his grip just as effective as , if not more so than , the hysterical screaming found in most movie presentations of insanity .  lynch's direction and director of photography pete deming's darkly lit cinematography serve to create a nearly suffocating atmosphere of tension and fear that are exactly what is needed for this story .  well , most of the time , anyway - i have to admit that i was a bit bored at times during the section of the film with pete dayton as the protgaonist , which is less inherently interesting and mostly keeps the viewer's attention because of its tie-ins to the original mystery .  the main characters in this " reality " - dayton ( a well-meaning but none too intelligent 24-year-old ) , a sleazy gangster ( who for some reason has two names but otherwise is pretty much a stock character ) , and his porn-star girlfriend ( the blond arquette ) - are nothing you couldn't find in any of the two dozen " pulp fiction " wannabes ; fortunately , the reappearance of the mystery man as well as some other typically lynchian elements , such as the strained , awkward conversations between pete and his parents , help to preserve the film's spooky , unnerving tone during this stretch .  lynch's typically graphic and disturbing portrayals of fringe sexuality , while relevant to the themes of jealousy and adultery , are also somewhat overdone here .  it's not exactly exploitative - like almost everything else in this film , the sex is thoroughly weird and creepy and is unlikely to provide any cheap lurid thrills - as much as it is unnecessary and frankly kind of dumb by the seventh or eighth time arquette takes her clothes off .  that said , these minor flaws don't prevent " lost highway " from attaining its place as one of the darkest , most unsettling films to hit the screens in recent years .  it is a one-way ride down the lost highway of a disturbed mind , and as such it is gripping , intense , and brilliantly effective .  
neg	if this is an example of the type of project that robert redford's lab is willing to lend its imprimatur to , then perhaps it's time to rethink independent films . 
pos	evokes a palpable sense of disconnection , made all the more poignant by the incessant use of cell phones . 
neg	goes on and on to the point of nausea . 
neg	it's a shame the execution of this concept falls very short of its premise .  the movie is lacking and most unsatisfying .  osmosis jones is crude , gross , disgusting , and was directed by the farrelly brothers - the twisted siblings behind there's something about mary , me , myself and irene and a couple of other movies in which the humor is mostly targeted below the belt .  not that there's anything wrong with scatology .  i bet even cavemen appreciated bathroom humor - such as it was .  it's merely that with osmosis jones , the farrellys humor is too juvenile , too predictable .  you can almost foresee the puns just by viewing the part of the inner anatomy a sequence is drawn .  osmosis jones looks like one of those old health class movies gone psycho .  the trouble is , the animation may please the very young , but the jokes may be over their heads , while the teen-age audience may find it too tame for their tastes .  adults ? well , let's just say most will find it unappetizing .  osmosis jones plays like a 100-minute infomercial for the eat healthy foods lobby .  the live action sequences revolve around frank ( bill murray ) , who seems to be the grungiest human being in the universe .  he continually looks as if he needs a shave and a shower .  frank , much to the consternation of his daughter , is a fast-food addict , eating anything - and everything - that can kill you .  he works at a zoo where the animals look cleaner - and presumably smell better - than he does .  frank's body is invaded by thrax , a lethal virus , after frank eats a hard-boiled egg that had fallen to the ground .  it's not gross enough that frank picks the egg up from the dirt and plops it into his mouth .  nope , the farrellys pile it on by first having frank wrestle a chimp for the egg , wresting it from the primate's mouth .  like i said , the gross meter tips the scales on this one .  after ingesting the egg , the movie begins its animated sequences .  here , osmosis jones ( voiced by chris rock ) , a renegade white blood cell is teamed with drix ( voiced by frasier's david hyde pierce ) , a 12-hour , painkiller cold capsule to battle thrax ( smoothly voiced by laurence fishburne ) .  basically , what we have is a cliched cop-buddy movie , rife with all the clich ? s of that genre .  and this is why osmosis jones doesn't click .  it merely falls back on tired , familiar conventions instead of creating new and exciting situations .  the jokes and puns are lame : osmosis searches out a snitch , a former flu virus .  after pumping him for information , drix tells osmosis , " funny , he doesn't look fluish . "  and the jokes don't rise above that level .  the live action scenes are no better .  frank is such a slob , so unappealing that it is difficult to fathom how he ever married or even sired a child .  he's almost a bigger cartoon than the animated characters .  osmosis jones is a movie that may be too violent for young children as thrax burns and dissolves blood cells right and left .  the animation is rather two-dimensional and flat .  it lacks scope and depth .  it is an unappealing movie that will leave you scratching your head , and maybe leaning toward a shower after you walk out of the theater .  
neg	just consider what new best friend does not have , beginning with the minor omission of a screenplay . 
neg	i'm not saying that ice age doesn't have some fairly pretty pictures , but there's not enough substance in the story to actually give them life . 
pos	energetic and boldly provocative . 
neg	2 days in the valley is more or less a pulp fiction knock off .  it basically involves how a bunch of quirky characters in the los angeles area end up having their lives become intertwined in some very unusual ways .  i'm not going into much greater detail than that , since it would take forever to explain , and quite frankly , i'm not willing to spend any more time on it than the 2 hours that i've already wasted .  while it tries very hard to be pulp fiction , 2 days in the valley falls way short .  this is quite a condemnation considering the cast includes danny aiello , james spader and jeff daniels .  while the story isn't much , and the dialogue and characters rate only marginally better , 2 days in the valley does have a couple of bright spots .  james spader's character , while not much better than the rest , is at least fun to watch in a sick sort of way .  and we do get to see a nice cat fight between uber babes teri hatcher and charlize theron ( in her first role ) .  you know a movie isn't that good when the highlight is a brawl between two women .  even if they are both gorgeous .  i will give the writers some credit for the fairly clever ways in which they managed to intersect the lives of this group of characters that would have otherwise never interacted .  but marveling at that ingenuity is a far cry from actually enjoying the result .  while some of the characters and their respective stories are fairly interesting , they inevitably are brought down as they intersect with the other half of the characters that i really cared absolutely nothing about .  if i were to put a number on it , only about half of the story and half the characters in this movie were particularly interesting or otherwise enjoyable to watch .  this is the sort of movie that only a huge fan of one or more of the cast members should rent , and even then prepare for disappointment .  not even charlize theron being naked would get me to sit through this movie again .  or at least not all of it anyway .  
neg	silly stuff , all mixed up together like a term paper from a kid who can't quite distinguish one sci-fi work from another . 
neg	there's not a single jump-in-your-seat moment and believe it or not , jason actually takes a backseat in his own film to special effects . 
neg	rifkin no doubt fancies himself something of a hubert selby jr . , but there isn't an ounce of honest poetry in his entire script ; it's simply crude and unrelentingly exploitative . 
neg	hip-hop prison thriller of stupefying absurdity . 
neg	while the performances are often engaging , this loose collection of largely improvised numbers would probably have worked better as a one-hour tv documentary . 
pos	it's a smart , funny look at an arcane area of popular culture , and if it isn't entirely persuasive , it does give exposure to some talented performers . 
neg	this movie is maddening . it conveys a simple message in a visual style that is willfully overwrought . 
neg	there's a solid woman- finding-herself story somewhere in here , but you'd have to dig pretty deep to uncover it . 
neg	pretty much sucks , but has a funny moment or two . 
neg	this is the worst movie i've viewed so far in 98 .  the avengers = silly = man dressed in a bowler hat + woman wearing tight leathers > evil scientists dressed in teddy bear suits + greater evil , sir august de wynter wearing kilt .  the question is what could have gone wrong with a potentially great idea with big name cast ?  the same question was probably asked of last year's stinker batman and robin .  i feel the production got a little too smug , the script a little to smart and direction was somehow lost in the chaos of random events that collided together to form a movie .  my greatest criticism rests on the fact that there was no chemistry between emma peel and john steed ( thurman and fiennes ) ? something that was a vital element of the 60's tv serial of the same name .  the dialogue goes on and on about tea and other finer british perks , but does not allow much room for character development and interaction , except to perhaps grate on the viewer's nerves .  one wonders why the dynamic pair bother kissing in the end except for pure english formality .  connery as sir august , does not fair better than thurman or fiennes .  his dialogue is as erratic as stormy weather , mostly embarrassing and poor quality .  if there is a movie you would prefer never to see , i believe the avengers would be a good choice .  for one thing , you will not have to witness a product that is far inferior to the three high profile names that is associated with the title .  i cannot understand how something so poorly produced could have been released , but i put it down to one of those freak happenings in nature , like lightning you can't see it coming until it hits you .  
neg	bears about as much resemblance to the experiences of most battered women as spider-man does to the experiences of most teenagers . 
neg	there are touching moments in etoiles , but for the most part this is a dull , dour documentary on what ought to be a joyful or at least fascinating subject . 
neg	high drama , disney-style - a wing and a prayer and a hunky has-been pursuing his castle in the sky . 
neg	despite impeccable acting . . . and a script that takes some rather unexpected ( even , at times , preposterous ) turns , love is just too , too precious in the end . 
pos	there's a lot to recommend read my lips . 
pos	' . . . despite lagging near the finish line , the movie runs a good race , one that will have you at the edge of your seat for long stretches . '
neg	the movie is an extra - long tale of a classic novel that completely fails to capture the original adventure 's spirit . the quite horribly american patrick swayze is cast as the british hero allan quatermain despite the obviousness of his nationality . the movie continues throughout to " hollywood - ise " the story by changing both the plot and the characters to fit more comfortably into the accepted mold . the movie manages to be predictable throughout , even to those who are not familiar with the story and is plagued by some extremely bad acting and terribly disappointing fight sequences . all in all , a terrible addition to the already quite bad collection of movies based on the legend of king soloman 's mines and allan quatermain .
neg	the second half of steven soderbergh 's revolutionary bio on che guevara deals with his last campaign to export revolution to bolivia . in order to maintain his saintly visage of che soderbergh conveniently leap frogs the mass executions he presided over after the revolution in cuba and the folly of his congo adventure ( " this is the history of a failure " he writes in the preface of his congo journal ) to concentrate fully on che 's attempt to rally support to rise up against the government in bolivia . it would turn out to be a disaster and guevara 's final act . what plagued the first chapter follows suit here as soderbergh slows his film to a crawl to study the beatific countenance of the contemplative guevara once again being played like james dean in east of eden by bernicio del toro . the problem is guevara has little success in gaining converts and he soon finds himself and his starving comrades being swallowed up in the heart of darkness bolivian jungle . unlike werner herzog in the magnificent , aguirre , the wrath of god soderbergh fails to utilize the jungle 's metaphorical possibilities to heighten the desperation of the guerrillas . he seems more concerned with keeping che 's nimbus above his head than exploring the panic setting in on the dead enders . there is one herzogian moment where che sits astride an obstinate horse kicking and screaming to get it moving but overall soderbergh 's mise en scene remains flat , sloppy and uninteresting .   in both of his films soderbergh shows he is clearly a che groupie and because of it his focus remains myopic and narrow . he spends too much time building his monument to che and too little in developing his relationships with key players in his saga , especially fidel castro . making matters worse he does it with a slow and dispassionate approach that never catches fire . one would think he was steeped in enough eisenstein and vertov to realize that sweeping change is showcased a lot better with sweeping style .
neg	a film with a great premise but only a great premise . 
pos	street fight is a brilliant piece of brutal satire . this is not a movie you just watch for fun . it is not a comfortable experience , although it does have some laugh - out - loud moments . this is a movie you watch when you need food for thought . to dismiss this film as simply racist is to miss the point entirely . this is not only a satire of song of the south , it 's also a biting commentary on the prejudices that americans still have as a society . every ethnic group portrayed in the movie gets shown as grotesque caricatures of their stereotypes , which in turn are grotesque caricatures of real people . through this wild exaggeration , the filmmaker shows just how absurd these tightly - held beliefs really are . if you 're the sort of person who 's willing to acknowledge the ugliness of the prevalent prejudices american culture still holds , and if you 're not afraid to look your own prejudices in the eye , this movie may be for you .
pos	with many big-budget science fiction films , great ideas are often wasted by bad scripts , cheesy plot twists , and , terrible acting .  the fifth element , the abyss , and godzilla had great concepts squandered by bad acting , writing , or both .  at first glance , the matrix , larry & andy wachowski's sci-fi/kung-fu/shoot-em-up spectacular , looks like a prime candidate to join the list of high-concept bad movies , especially with dopey keanu reeves in the leading role .  but despite high levels of cheese and gaudy dialogue , the matrix works .  it's an uncanny blend of action and surreal fantasy that borrows from dozens of other films ( most obviously the terminator films , star wars , and total recall ) , but remains refreshingly original and interesting throughout .  reeves plays neo , a computer hacker who stumbles into an initially bewildering set of encounters with " trinity " ( carrie-anne moss ) , a rival hacker who has supernatural powers and stunning good looks , a unseen , omniscient cult figure known as " morpheus " ( lawrence fishburne ) , and a trio of creepy men in dark suits who act like irs agents from hell .  neo quickly learns that the world he has known all his life is not what it seems .  moreover , he discovers that the grim , bleak world he is introduced to has been waiting for him to save it .  neo is reluctant to assume the role of messiah , with grave doubts that he is actually " the one " prophesized to come and save the world .  reluctant or not , what follows is a mix of hong kong-style slow-motion shootouts , surreal dream sequences , high speed chases , and comic book kung-fu fights .  the film also raises interesting philosophical questions about reality .  how exactly do you know what is real and what is in your mind ?  and if the real world were much harsher and grim than a fantasy one you were living in , would you want to face the true world or continue to live in a more comfortable illusion ?  unfortunately , the matrix doesn't provide many answers to the questions it raises , but at least it puts some ideas behind all the explosions , shoot-outs , and flying roundhouse kicks .  perhaps stealing the entire show in the matrix is australian actor hugo weaving , who plays agent smith , the leader of the creepy agents in sunglasses and suits who seem capable of being anywhere and doing anything to stop neo and friends from destabilizing the matrix .  weaving's stony appearance , deadpan voice , and chilling comments put a grim human face on the haunting , evil technological force that controls the matrix .  like robert patrick as the shapeshifting t-1000 terminator in terminator 2 : judgement day , weaving is more frightening than any monstrous alien or homicidal robot because , despite his power and seeming invincibility , he looks ordinary , even scrawny .  weaving embodies his role with a memorably chilling presence .  the film features some truly breathtaking special effects and stylish cinematography .  it seems to be deliberately kitchy , with stylized fight sequences directed by hong kong stunt specialist wo ping that reportedly required months of martial arts training by the actors .  in a few scenes , the posing and posturing is unintentionally funny .  just seeing keanu reeves engaging in serious kung fu is a bit jarring .  however , with the comic-book style and tone of the film , you can sustain willing disbelief long enough to enjoy the ride without losing patience .  the matrix isn't a classic .  its open-ended and confusing conclusion raises more questions than it answers .  it fails to resolve many of its own plot twists and philosophical questions .  it also relies on some conventional sentimentality to save the hero - the kind of shmaltzy feel-good goo that most of the film avoids .  reportedly , the producers have high hopes for the film being the first in a trilogy and have already begun work on the story for the sequel .  unfortunately , audiences deserve a little more than a vague sense that the story will continue in the future .  the matrix is an fun , enjoyable diversion , like a big puff of cotton candy at a carnival .  just don't be surprised half an hour later when you still feel a little hungry .  
pos	a miracle of filmmaking , " some like it hot " is a brilliant film , and maybe the foremost example of slapstick comedy brought to screen with clever sight gags and plot twists .  it is the pinnacle of writer-director billy wilder's career , a stunning feat considering the vast catalogue of films he had helped make .  jerry ( lemmon ) and joe ( curtis ) are two stage musicians who go from gig to gig , trying to earn enough money to feed themselves .  one night , as they're playing at a banned prohibition speakeasy , the place is raided .  as it turns out , the owner , spats columbo ( george raft ) was ratted out by toothpick charlie ( george e . stone ) .  several weeks later , on valentine's day , jerry and joe go to a garage to pick up a car and end up witnessing a gangland murder of charlie by columbo in a parking garage .  eager to escape , the duo are forced to take a job in florida with all expenses paid .  the only catch . . its a girls band .  so josephine ( curtis ) and daphne ( lemmon ) , make their way onto the train and go to florida .  on the way there , they meet sugar kane ( monroe ) , a bombshell singer who is looking for love .  jerry and joe immediately fall for the singer , but there's two problems : 1 ) they're in drag , and 2 ) millionaire osgood fielding ( joe e . brown ) falls madly in love with daphne .  what follows in pure hysteria , still complicated further by the arrival of spats columbo to florida for the " italian opera lovers festival " .  tony curtis is hysterical as joe/josephine , especially in his preposterous attempts to woo sugar .  marilyn monroe , in a wonderfully comic performance , is sugar , providing incredible timing and sex appeal , along with true sincerity .  the scenes , however , are all stolen by either brown or lemmon .  lemmon is hysterical as daphne .  cast as the less rational one , lemmon's performance is ridiculously crazy , it is disorder in the style all billy wilder's .  brown is particularly hilarious as osgood , as we are treated to the finest kind of comedic irony .  he manages to use lemmon's ingenious performance as a springboard for an even loonier performance as a completely eccentric millionaire .  every set-piece is flawless , as wilder brilliantly changes settings constantly , and uses every comic trick in the book to make his picture .  wilder's script is stunning , as he carefully combines gangsters , cross-dressing , romance , sex , music , gender roles , and social taboos in a riotous blend of wit and oddball craziness .  wilder manages to create scenes of utter hysteria , so pitch-perfect that the audience is dying of laughter with the last comic piece , the final line of this absolutely incredible film .  wilder's is dead wrong when he says nobody's perfect : billy wilder is , especially when he makes something this disastrously funny .  nobody's perfect but billy wilder .  
neg	the premise itself is just sooooo tired . pair that with really poor comedic writing . . . and you've got a huge mess . 
neg	there's no point of view , no contemporary interpretation of joan's prefeminist plight , so we're left thinking the only reason to make the movie is because present standards allow for plenty of nudity . 
neg	it gets the details of its time frame right but it completely misses its emotions . 
neg	it shows that some studios firmly believe that people have lost the ability to think and will forgive any shoddy product as long as there's a little girl-on-girl action . 
neg	seemingly disgusted with the lazy material and the finished product's unshapely look , director fisher stevens inexplicably dips key moments from the film in waking life water colors . 
pos	has the capability of effecting change and inspiring hope . 
neg	* spoiler warning * first of all i rated this movie 2 out of 10 . the idea is good , but there are too many stupid errors in the movie , failing to make it the psyching drama that it might have been . first of all she never fights alone . after an initial very strange doubt from her mother ( which is not believable when the mother proves to be so supportive and loving later in the movie ) the rape victim is not alone .   she is also unbelievably naive always falling into the crew 's strange traps .   her friends are unbelievably nasty . the thing that i find most unbelievably is that ethan fails to control the crew when he changes his opinon . ethan is very much the leader of the crew ( hey , they even say so ) and people seem to think the other guy is a jerk , but when ethan changes his opinion he just does n't manage to convince even one single person in the crew that he is right and that his former friend is wrong . everyone just simply hates him ... why ? ? the movie provides no explanation . how did he ever become the leader ? a funny note is that my girlfriend thought i was watching beverly hills when she came in . two actors from the same successful tv - series .... a cheap way to get viewers ?
pos	the film becomes an overwhelming pleasure , and you find yourself rooting for gai's character to avoid the fate that has befallen every other carmen before her . 
neg	some body often looks like an episode of the tv show blind date , only less technically proficient and without the pop-up comments . 
pos	the reason to see " sade " lay with the chemistry and complex relationship between the marquis ( auteil ) and emilie ( le besco ) . 
neg	a lack of thesis makes maryam , in the end , play out with the intellectual and emotional impact of an after-school special . 
neg	i don't appreciate it when a thriller manipulates the viewer into thinking the plot is interesting , when in fact it's ludicrous .  in the case of the general's daughter , the plot is more than capable of intriguing you to a certain point .  but at this juncture in the story , the movie begins to fall apart like a crumbling cookie .  this predictable summer thriller is only sporadically involving , and that is unfortunately not enough to compensate for all of it's detailed flaws .  get past one moment early on where john travolta exercises his southern accent , and you're likely to survive this entire movie .  travolta plays criminal investigations divisions officer paul brenner , who's working undercover at a military base when another situation arises : the apparent rape and murder of a young female officer ( leslie stefanson ) .  it turns out that the victim is the daughter of general joe campbell ( james cromwell ) .  let the investigation begin .  with the assistance of fellow cid investigator sarah sunhill ( played rather on-the-sidelines by madeleine stowe ) , brenner uncovers what appears to be an intricate and bizarre homicide case .  things begin to get marginally engrossing when we meet colonel moore ( james woods ) , a former commanding officer of the deceased who has a few secrets up his sleeve .  woods submits another scene-stealing performance here as he oozes authority , surrounded by clouds of smoke emitted from his cigar .  with echoes of his supporting role in true crime , in which he duked it out with clint eastwood in enjoyably profane verbal exchanges , he makes every moment believable .  here though , the intense dialogue comes care of confrontations with travolta , as the two send mindful , knowing glares across the room .  there are many scenes such as this in the general's daughter , in which the veteran cast performs splendidly under pressure , but the circumstances that tie these meetings together are difficult to absorb .  director simon west ( con air ) , shows a watchful eye of delivering a stylish looking thriller , but he fails miserably when it comes to the intellectual part of it .  the general's daughter is , more often than not , a predictable and unexciting mess .  it does not help matters that the plot is virtually actionless , dragging it's heels all the way at a mind-numbing snails pace .  a few brief action scenes , marvelously handled in the editing department , show that the movie could have delivered such a more proficient package .  from a director who does such a great job of staging explosions and miraculous stunts , i suggest west should stick with mindless , rip-roaring action features and attempt to avoid future projects like this .  still , the movie is certainly not without it's merits .  the acting is very good from the majority of the experienced cast .  the performances range from commanding ( travolta ) to electric ( woods ) to stiff-as-a-board ( cromwell , who doesn't show off his real talents here ) .  madeleine stowe manages to hold her own for a while , but as the female lead in an action-thriller , she doesn't pull through sufficiently .  one of the problems with the execution is that it's very predictable .  >from minute one , i had few doubts about the identity of the killer in question .  the script even unwillingly points him out for us , using familiar techniques to hide his guilt until the unmasking toward the end .  in all fairness , we've seen many of the devices used in the general's daughter put to greater effect in other films .  the secrets behind the girl's mysterious death are explained gradually , but by the resolution we have tunneled through so much malarkey that it feels unnecessary and surprisingly silly .  the general's daughter is not a terrible movie , and it is involving enough to sustain a viewer's attention span for a certain period of time .  but it just could have been so much better .  
pos	this often-hilarious farce manages to generate the belly laughs of lowbrow comedy without sacrificing its high-minded appeal . 
neg	though it was made with careful attention to detail and is well-acted by james spader and maggie gyllenhaal , i felt disrespected . 
pos	both a grand tour through 300 hundred years of russian cultural identity and a stunning technical achievement . 
neg	busy urban comedy is clearly not zhang's forte , his directorial touch is neither light nor magical enough to bring off this kind of whimsy . 
pos	all in all , the count of monte cristo is okay , but it is surely no classic , like the novel upon which it is based . 
neg	horrid little propaganda film with fascinating connections not only to the serbs themselves but also to a network of american right-wing extremists . 
neg	a long , dull procession of despair , set to cello music culled from a minimalist funeral . 
pos	a mostly believable , refreshingly low-key and quietly inspirational little sports drama . 
pos	an engrossing portrait of uncompromising artists trying to create something original against the backdrop of a corporate music industry that only seems to care about the bottom line . 
pos	a lean , deftly shot , well-acted , weirdly retro thriller that recalls a raft of '60s and '70s european-set spy pictures . 
neg	one long string of cliches . 
neg	though catch me if you can isn't badly made , the fun slowly leaks out of the movie . 
neg	the punch lines that miss , unfortunately , outnumber the hits by three-to-one . but death to smoochy keeps firing until the bitter end . 
pos	it's all entertaining enough , but don't look for any hefty anti-establishment message in what is essentially a whip-crack of a buddy movie that ends with a whimper . 
neg	pap invested in undergraduate doubling subtexts and ridiculous stabs at existentialism reminding of the discovery of the wizard of god in the fifth trek flick . 
pos	simply and eloquently articulates the tangled feelings of particular new yorkers deeply touched by an unprecedented tragedy . 
neg	one of the most incoherent features in recent memory . 
pos	a positively thrilling combination of ethnography and all the intrigue , betrayal , deceit and murder of a shakespearean tragedy or a juicy soap opera . 
pos	apuestas fuertes para el futuro del director , y apuestas bien fundadas , pues la suerte ya la tiene , y la cinta lo comprueba . . . . 
neg	barely manages for but a few seconds over its seemingly eternal running time to pique your interest , your imagination , your empathy or anything , really , save your disgust and your indifference . 
pos	for the most part , it's a work of incendiary genius , steering clear of knee-jerk reactions and quick solutions . 
neg	feels like the grittiest movie that was ever made for the lifetime cable television network . 
pos	it's a treat  a delightful , witty , improbable romantic comedy with a zippy jazzy score grant and bullock make it look as though they are having so much fun . 
pos	one of the best silly horror movies of recent memory , with some real shocks in store for unwary viewers . 
pos	awesome work : ineffable , elusive , yet inexplicably powerful
pos	elvira fans could hardly ask for more . 
neg	with very little to add beyond the dark visions already relayed by superb recent predecessors like swimming with sharks and the player , this latest skewering . . . may put off insiders and outsiders alike . 
neg	lush and beautifully photographed ( somebody suggested the stills might make a nice coffee table book ) , but ultimately you'll leave the theater wondering why these people mattered . 
pos	works because , for the most part , it avoids the stupid cliches and formulaic potholes that befall its brethren . 
neg	lacking substance and soul , crossroads comes up shorter than britney's cutoffs . 
neg	some of seagal's action pictures are guilty pleasures , but this one is so formulaic that it seems to be on auto-pilot . 
pos	maryam is more timely now than ever . 
neg	the feature-length stretch . . . strains the show's concept . 
pos	stage director sam mendes showcases tom hanks as a depression era hit-man in this dark tale of revenge . 
pos	almost peerlessly unsettling . 
neg	not a cheap slasher flick , as the subject matter would suggest , but is a little like a nature film , showing a patient predator and his foolish prey . 
pos	contact is the 1997 movie i've seen the most - five times to be exact .  four of those times were on the big screen , but even on a tv , it's a very impressive film .  the same can't be said for films like independance day , but that's because contact is a rare example in sci-fi filmmaking where the story is treated more importantly than the special effects , and all of us know looking back that id4 didn't offer much outside of some one-time delightful eye candy .  contact's wonderfully presented story deals with ellie arroway ( jodie foster ) , a radio astronomer whose preference of study involves the outdated technique of " merely listening " to sounds out in space .  her interest in the field of astronomy developed at a very young age , encouraged by her loving father , ted ( david morse ) , who let ellie use a small ham radio to pick up on frequencies and communicate with people as far away as pensacola , fl ( that was , of course , before the days of internet chat rooms ) .  while everyone else uses modern technologies to aid them in the search for extra-terrestrial intelligence ( of which the program seti is an acronym for ) , ellie prefers to pop on a pair of headphones and see what she can pick up on , keeping the youthful magic and intrigue strongly alive .  ellie's strong scientific basis essentially makes her an atheist , a belief likely influenced by the death of her father while she was still quite young .  in puerto rico , she meets palmer joss ( matthew mcconaughey ) , a writer examining the effects of technology on the world's overall happiness ; a one- time seminary student who describes himself as " a man of the cloth , without the cloth " .  despite the vast differences in opinion regarding a " supreme being " , ellie and palmer hit it off , and even take the time to sleep together .  it's a weak and hurried relationship , but director zemeckis needs it to add to the plot later on .  meanwhile , dr . david drumlin ( tom skerritt ) , who has authority over seti but finds the program a frivolous waste of time and money , is ready to pull the plug on any and all seti funding .  this leaves the passionate ellie searching for new sponsors , eventually finding a setup in new mexico and leaving palmer with no explanation , and only a one night stand to remember .  it is in this nm city where , several months later , ellie finally picks up on a strong signal from outer space , perhaps the most profound discovery in the history of science .  when the signal is closely examined , many new developments spring up , and before long , drumlin is stepping in to take over the operation he once scoffed at .  eventually , it is concluded that information in the signal may be blueprints for a transportation device used to teleport an earthling to vega ( where the signal seems to have originated ) .  the media swarms , fanatics go further off the deep end , scientists clamor for new information , politicians huddle in discussion of appropriate actions to take , and presidents are morphed into a celluloid reality ( remember when zemeckis couldn't get enough of this in forrest gump ? ) .  as if that weren't enough , ellie's discovery leads her to the nation's capital where she again runs into palmer .  contact is based on the novel by carl sagan and deals heavily with the subject of science vs . religion .  the impressive thing is how well both aspects are presented , with no signs of bias .  arguments for both sides are intelligent , solid , and thought-provoking .  when palmer joins a selection committee to choose an ambassador to vega ( of which ellie is a leading candidate ) , personal convictions play a more important role than love interests .  the question is , can a person who doesn't believe in god truly be the best representative of earth when 90% of the planet * does * believe in a higher power ?  even when the film wraps up , it's uncertain whether it's meant to play as an advocate for religion , science , both , or even neither , and in our modern day society where " right and wrong " is only opinion ( at least speaking " politically correctly " ) , the ambiguity is an incentive .  don't get me wrong .  as much as it sounds like it , contact isn't merely a theology class rolled into a reel of film .  it's a * highly * enjoyable two and a half hours .  despite its seemingly heavy issues , it's not a tedious undertaking to watch this film .  the special effects are outstanding , though ( warning ! )  highly depreciated on the small screen .  even so , some of the subtle visual effects ( that will likely go unnoticed by many ) are even more impressive than ones more recognizable as " sci-fi " .  the storytelling is rich and complete , and although there are moments in the film that feel quite pretentious ( and at times , even hokey ) , it's easily one of the best 1997 films , and one of the best sci-fi films i've ever seen .  this is zemeckis' best since back to the future , and for those of us who actually know that forrest gump was astronomically overrated , zemeckis now has real reason to boast .  
pos	while not all that bad of a movie , it's nowhere near as good as the original . 
pos	captures all the longing , anguish and ache , the confusing sexual messages and the wish to be a part of that elusive adult world . 
neg	an unsatisfying hybrid of blair witch and typical stalk-and-slash fare , where the most conservative protagonist is always the last one living . 
pos	like its bizarre heroine , it irrigates our souls . 
pos	andy garcia enjoys one of his richest roles in years and mick jagger gives his best movie performance since , well , performance . 
neg	i'm not sure which half of dragonfly is worse : the part where nothing's happening , or the part where something's happening , but it's stupid . 
neg	the summer of 00' wasn't a very good one for devout cinephiles .  it offered no blair witches or sixth senses ; the best big budget hollywood could do was an efficient x-men adaptation and a flawed but entertaining shaft update .  nurse betty signals the unofficial end of that dreadful summer movie season and the commencement of a potentially brighter fall movie season , that battery-charging ( at least for critics who have to sit through every piece o' shit that moseys into multiplexes ) time of year when all those oscar contenders ( read : " quality " films ) compete for audiences .  alas betty has the dubious distinction of being the first overpraised junk heap of the new season .  it's also indie director neil labute's first attempt at something resembling a mainstream picture , and i'm sad to report it's a resounding failure ( at least on this web site ) , a mess that's as hopelessly saccharine as people have accused labute's previous films of being unrelentingly masochistic .  i went in expecting something decent , for betty was gleefully praised , it's screenplay even winning an award at cannes , but i exited shaking my noggin in bewilderment .  are critics so desperate for something unique that they're blind to how derivative the particular brand of " uniqueness " betty dolls out is ?  for the first time labute is working from a script he has not written , and he seems unsure of how to handle the material .  betty tries to be hip like pulp fiction ( this is another flick featuring a pair of strangely bright and articulate hit men ) , enchanting like the wizard of oz ( of which this film makes several allusions to ) and heartwarming like [stick in your favorite loveable misfit movie] , but by the end it left me cold with its calculated desperation .  it's labute's half hearted attempt to make a crowd pleaser and he doesn't even seem to have half that heart in it .  nurse betty concerns a soap opera addict , betty ( brilliantly played by renee zellweger ) , who witnesses the killing of her husband , del ( aaron eckhart playing the most casually loutish husband since richard benjamin in diary of a mad housewife ) by two hit men ( morgan freeman and chris rock ) .  she happens to have her most beloved soap on in the background and somehow merges the two realities .  she's blocked out her husband's death and thinks she's a character in her favorite soap , a reason to love .  betty sets out on the road to la ( with some drugs unknowingly stashed in her car trunk ) searching for her soap boyfriend dr . david ravell ( greg kinnear ) while the two bickering hit men follow in not so close pursuit .  the labute who birthed the extraordinary in the company of men , slipped a bit ( but not much ) with his sophomore effort , your friends and neighbors , then fell straight on his ass with bash , a play he penned that was recently aired on showtime .  the play demonstrated no forward movement as an artist , only labute's persistence in wallowing in the horrid things " average " people do to each other , usually with out realizing how horrid they themselves are .  in the play , paul rudd , as an obnoxious jock , delivers a monologue detailing how he once followed a gay man into a bathroom and beat him maybe to death , while his clueless girlfriend essentially regards his sadistic behaviors as something along the old maxim " boys will be boys " .  another character , schlubby businessman reacts to the loss of his job by actually killing his own baby !  what was once so powerful about labute's work , the casual , nonchalant cruelty and selfishness ( often elements we all have in us amplified to a disgusting degree ) had become so over the top it was borderline comic .  obviously , at this point , labute could use a dose of some different kind of material before he pigeon holes himself further , but nurse betty isn't it .  he clearly has little passion for what he's doing here , instead replacing his mojo with strained quirks ( one of the hit men is a huge soap fan , and the character of betty would be little more than a one joke gimmick if zelllweger hadn't managed to transcend that ) tailor made to appeal to the widest possible audience .  nearly every scene between chris rock and morgan freeman fatally slows the picture down , as the two are made to enact soft-boiled tarantino-esque dialogue .  they evince little chemistry , with rock constantly in over the top rant mode , acting more like an angry comic than any thing resembling a hit man ( an occupation that's represented far too frequently in movies nowadays ) .  i think rock is a great comic yet he hasn't been able to bring his feral intelligence to movies , whenever he acts , and no matter the part , it's like he's doing the damn chris rock show .  surprisingly ( at least considering her work in me , myself and irene ) renee zellweger gives a revelatory performance , building on her baby faced , apple pie looks .  that wide-open face and helium voiced earnestness suggests a little girl not fully grown into her thirty-year-old body .  it's the best work she's ever done .  freeman is effective as always , though his performance nonetheless suffers because it seems at odds with where the movie wants to take it .  the actor plays the role in his usual calm , collected manner , though the flick tries to insinuate a symbolic kinship between his character and betty's , suggesting that both are controlled by their fantasies rather than reality .  that's interesting but the movie doesn't do anything with it other than crash land the sub-theme into a labored speech in the midst of a badly staged gun battle .  the film has good moments ( many of the scenes involving a very good greg kinnear , especially his confrontation with zellweger ) , an almost soothing , lyrical score ( and you know a movie's in trouble when the score sticks out as one of the best things about it ) but nothing jells , it's parts , good or bad , are so disparate as to be opposing .  the film might have worked had it settled on being one type of film , a mainstream , female forrest gump or an oddball art film , but as both if it falls as flat as diet coke .  betty's screenplay makes the mistake of relying too much on concurrence , without which betty wouldn't make any progress in the film .  nurse betty is a film driven by coincidence rather than charter , like how betty becomes a nurse in the film , a job that she takes in order to get closer to her imaginary lover ; she happens to be at the hospital at the exact moment that a drive by shooting takes place and miraculously knows how to take care of the victim's wound because she happened to see how on tv , which leads to her being offered a room with the victim's girlfriend who eventually gets betty into a party where she meets kinnear ? ? ? a little too tidy , don'tcha think .  betty has an interesting theme , though it doesn't even seem aware of this .  the current state of tv has been leaning towards reality television what with the enormous success of survivor and moderate success of big brother , with more on the way .  this is a film about a women so deluded as to think that her favorite soap opera is reality ( ironically real-life survivor sean kennif has taken a part as a doctor on the soap opera guiding light ) .  instead of exploring this timely matter in a way relating to the current tv craze ( since the film does largely appear to be a satire of television , albeit one that would feel more appropriate in the '80s than the '00s ) , the film simply uses betty's delusions as a plot device to get her from point a to b . no progress is made and little is unearthed except that maybe labute could use a bit of rest and a lot of contemplation .  
neg	all movie long , city by the sea swings from one approach to the other , but in the end , it stays in formula -- which is a waste of de niro , mcdormand and the other good actors in the cast . 
pos	the film's snags and stumblings are more than compensated for by its wryly subversive tone . 
pos	a quasi-documentary by french filmmaker karim dridi that celebrates the hardy spirit of cuban music . 
pos	tsai ming-liang has taken his trademark style and refined it to a crystalline point . 
pos	all in all , brown sugar is a satisfying well-made romantic comedy that's both charming and well acted . it will guarantee to have you leaving the theater with a smile on your face . 
neg	here's my advice , kev . start reading your scripts before signing that dotted line . 
neg	so brisk is wang's pacing that none of the excellent cast are given air to breathe . 
neg	your taste for jonah - a veggie tales movie may well depend on your threshold for pop manifestations of the holy spirit . 
neg	some actors steal scenes . tom green just gives them a bad odor . this self-infatuated goofball is far from the only thing wrong with the clumsy comedy stealing harvard , but he's the most obvious one . 
pos	there's not much more to this adaptation of the nick hornby novel than charm -- effortless , pleasurable , featherweight charm . 
pos	one of the best inside-show-biz yarns ever . 
pos	this delicately observed story , deeply felt and masterfully stylized , is a triumph for its maverick director . 
neg	every now and then , reviewers are faced with the films that are hard to be properly reviewed .  most of the time it happens with films that leave so overwhelming impact , either good or bad , that in the end reviewers must work hard to express his thoughts or feelings .  but , sometimes it can happen for rather trivial reasons .  i love trouble happened to be one of such occasions for the author of this review .  the impression left by the film wasn't overwhelming - on the contrary , there were hardly any impression at all , since i had real trouble keeping myself awake while watching it .  which surprise me to this day , because the movie theatre was full , i was close to sound speakers , the show wasn't late and i didn't lack sleep before the show .  such things happen very rarely to me , and , after many years , the closest thing to solution to this mystery is probably the quality of the film itself .  the plot revolves around two rival chicago reporters - old peter brackett ( nick nolte ) and young , aspiring sabrina peterson ( julia roberts ) .  two of them are assigned to cover the train collision .  as soon as they meet , they start scooping each other , but during the process they both discover sinister plot involving cancerogenic milk , and also the romantic feelings they have for each other .  the plot in this film is rather secondary to its real raison d' ? tre - romantic pairing reminiscent of classical screwball comedies starring spencer tracy and katharine hepburn .  movie author , director and screenwriter charles shyer , who had some experiences with turning the screwball spirit into modern setting with father of the bride , tries again , this time pairing old nick nolte with young julia roberts .  however , although there is some chemistry between the two , soon it stops to arouse any interest .  it probably happens due to poorly executed genre mix , that collides light-hearted romantic comedy with rather uninteresting plot suitable to pure action thrillers .  shyer as director fails to make the proper transition between the two , and fails in both areas , making the story cliched and predictable .  the end result is rather forgettable effort , which convinced me not to watch movie again .  i'll give it the benefit of the doubt , though .  
pos	the ingenuity that parker displays in freshening the play is almost in a class with that of wilde himself . 
pos	the movie is one of the best examples of artful large format filmmaking you are likely to see anytime soon . 
neg	synopsis : nice girl susanne has sex with her boyfriend daniel in his car , visits daniel's rich family during thanksgiving at their mansion in the middle of nowhere , and has sex with daniel again in the basement .  susanne and daniel must then decide where to hide from evil art thieves who shoot everyone else in the mansion to steal paintings .  brace yourself for one of those painfully obvious " surprise endings . "  comments : thanksgiving .  for most , it's a time to be with your loved ones and enjoy a good , home-cooked meal .  for the makers of body count , however , thanksgiving is a time for multiple murders , violence , profanity , family dysfunction , and sex .  boy , do i feel all the more better having sat through this crap .  alyssa milano , the former child star of who's the boss ? , matures to made-for-video sludge like this movie .  someone somewhere thought it'd be a great idea to pair her with rapper ice-t , who has since guest-starred in the made-for-the-sci-fi-channel series welcome to paradox .  this isn't exactly a winning combination .  outside of permanently ruining a holiday for me , what else may be said for this turkey ?  well , it teaches us that beautiful , attractive women who look strikingly like alyssa milano fall in love with nerds who drive down long winding roads with their eyes closed and complain about being english teachers .  it presents us with a heartwarming thanksgiving dinner attended by alcoholic , stuck-up rich white people waited on by black servants .  it shows us that old guys , try not to laugh , sit around and talk about " the appeal of postmodernism " during their free time .  and , it proves that you can have sex in your parents' basement when they have a dozen or so guests over , and no one will notice .  before i go any further , if any young male reading this has hopes of seeing alyssa naked , forget it .  the filmmakers cleverly shoot the simulated sex scenes in a manner that makes sure you don't see any of milano's attributes .  they do , however , inexplicably throw in a scene where ice-t whistles " jingle bells " after killing people , for whatever that's worth .  this film was originally titled below utopia .  perhaps they should have renamed it hell .  avoid this clunker .  
pos	if the material is slight and admittedly manipulative , jacquot preserves tosca's intoxicating ardor through his use of the camera . 
pos	'aunque recurre a ciertos clichés del género , la poderosa actuación de robin williams perdona las fallas del guión . '
pos	birthday girl walks a tricky tightrope between being wickedly funny and just plain wicked . 
neg	 " shagadellic ! " , " groovy , baby ! "   " smashing ! "  adorn the 1/4 page ad for this movie tabbed as " the #1 comedy in america " as of may 8th .  did we attend the same movie ? !  at 87 minutes it seemed overlong , like a snl skit on steroids , and at any length it seemed unfunny .  yes , the sets and costumes were an interesting exaggeration of 60s pop frills , and yes , the concept , dealing with a 60s secret agent/pop icon ( played by myers ) awakened from his cryogenic slumber to battle his arch enemy ( dr .  evil , also played by myers ) in the present day , had a great deal of potential .  fun costumes and scenery and potential do not a movie make so lets throw in a hefty dose of bathroom humor .  don't get me wrong , i like a good " bubbles in the bathtub joke " as much as the next person , but to have this type of humor be the funniest thing about your movie is a waste of yuor talent and my money .  but , the way things work these days in the movie business , all a film has to do is call itself the funniest and people will believe it .  i do give this film stars because of the sets , costumes , and sadly , unmet potential .  
neg	fulci experiments with sci fi and fails . usually in his non horror films we still get sum great gore , but not here . sum very funny scenes like when the prisinors are forced to hold onto a bar for 12 minutes and if they drop they are electecuted . the guy falls and and has some kind of fit on the floor for about two minutes until his friends who were struggling to hold on anyway lift him off the floor . the city is an obvious model but not a bad one . and the end explosion is at best laughable . and do nt get me started on the terrible battle scenes . 4/10
pos	arliss howard's ambitious , moving , and adventurous directorial debut , big bad love , meets so many of the challenges it poses for itself that one can forgive the film its flaws . 
neg	charly comes off as emotionally manipulative and sadly imitative of innumerable past love story derisions . 
neg	while it's all quite tasteful to look at , the attention process tends to do a little fleeing of its own . 
pos	rarely do films come along that are as intelligent , exuberant , and moving as monsoon wedding . 
pos	 " home movie " is the film equivalent of a lovingly rendered coffee table book . 
neg	starts as a tart little lemon drop of a movie and ends up as a bitter pill . 
pos	you can feel the heat that ignites this gripping tale , and the humor and humanity that root it in feeling . 
pos	one of those rare films that come by once in a while with flawless amounts of acting , direction , story and pace . 
neg	goldbacher draws on an elegant visual sense and a talent for easy , seductive pacing . . . but she and writing partner laurence coriat don't manage an equally assured narrative coinage . 
pos	while we no longer possess the lack-of-attention span that we did at seventeen , we had no trouble sitting for blade ii . 
pos	a triumph , relentless and beautiful in its downbeat darkness . 
pos	this is one of the best fred astaire - ginger rogers films , or at least one of my favorites . most of the a - r movies feature great dancing but sappy romance stories . this still has the courtship corniness but not as pronounced as the other films . this movie features not just great dancing but likable characters and a bunch of good songs . the music is the central theme here and what 's nice is the addition of a tap solo by rogers . she not only was a super dancer but a very pretty woman and one with tremendous figure . she dances also with fred , of course , and they 're always a fun pair to watch on the dance floor . growing up in the 1950s watching " ozzie & harriet " on television , it was a real kick the first time i saw this to see such a young harriet hilliard . no surprise than ozzie fell for this beauty . although she had that short early ' 30s hairstyle , i recognized her voice right away . also in this movie are quick appearances by betty grable and lucille ball , but i have to admit that i have yet to out ball . i ca n't find her , but i know she 's in here . astaire , except for some obnoxious gum - chewing in the first third of the film , was fun to watch and randolph scott - although better in westerns - is likable , too . this is simply a nice , feel - good film and good one if you want to to enjoy the great talents of astaire and rogers .
pos	superior genre storytelling , which gets under our skin simply by crossing the nuclear line . 
neg	why is it that everyone who has seen this movie feels it is their responsibility to tell us whether or not they are fencers ? that point is completely immaterial to any argument to be made against this total dog of a movie . i think sports movies fall into two categories ; well made movies about the human spirit and competitions , and ` by the sword ' . honestly this movie never could decide what it wanted to be , a touching drama for trying to be your best in life , an indictment of competitive motivation or a martial arts flick . in the end it did n't do any of those convincingly or completely enough to make me give one ounce of care of any of it . for the record i also am a fencing instructor ( and now i am officially as bad as the rest ) . but putting bad fencing in a movie does n't make it bad automatically . i mean look at star wars ( episodes 4 - 6 , good movies , bad fencing ) . i liked those movies . but when you put bad sports into a bad movie for some reason people think that it is only the purists that think it a lame effort . do n't be fooled by any comments on the smaller issue of fencing . this is just a bad movie . in the end , this movie has nothing for the fencing enthusiast or the movie buff or simply anyone with a pulse and three brain cells . when i see a movie and am forced to think , ` man , i wish i was watching the mighty ducks . ' i know that it is time to bypass the argument with the theater manager to get my money back and see if there is anyone in the lobby that will somehow give me two hours of my life back .
neg	that 's not just my considered verdict on this film , but also on the bulk of what has been written about it . now do n't get me wrong here either , i 'm not a total philistine , i did n't hate the movie because it was n't enough like ' police academy 9 ' or whatever , i enjoy more than my fair share of high brow or arty stuff , i swear . ' magnolia ' is poor , and i am honestly mystified as to why it is seemingly so acclaimed . long winded , self indulgent , rambling nonsense from start to finish , there is just so little that could credibly be what people so love about the movie . there 's some high calibre actors fair enough , and none turns in an average or worse performance . furthermore , my wife ( a self confessed tom cruise hater ) tells me it 's his career best performance by far . but the plot is so completely unengaging , meandering between the stories of several loosely connected characters at such a snail 's pace that even when significant life changing events are depicted they seem so pointless and uninteresting you find yourself crying out for someone to get blown up or something . it does n't help that none of the characters are very easy to identify or empathise with ( well i did n't think so , but i do n't like most people admittedly ) . they all play out their rather unentertaining life stories at great length , demonstrating their character flaws and emotions in ever - so intricate detail and playing out their deep and meaningful relationships to the nth degree with many a waffling soliloquy en route . yadda yadda yadda . the soundtrack 's dire as well , with that marrow - suckingly irritating quality that i had hitherto thought unique to the music of alanis morisette . all in all , it was about as enjoyable a three hours as being forced to repeatedly watch an episode of ' friends ' whilst being intermittently poked in the ribs by a disgruntled nanny goat . the bit with the frogs is good though .
neg	its over-reliance on genre conventions , character types and formulaic conflict resolutions crushes all the goodwill it otherwise develops . 
neg	unless there are zoning ordinances to protect your community from the dullest science fiction , impostor is opening today at a theater near you . 
pos	director douglas mcgrath takes on nickleby with all the halfhearted zeal of an 8th grade boy delving into required reading . 
neg	well arnold has completed the seemingly impossible task .  he has made three consecutive unsatisfactory action films .  in a domain that he owns , it is very surprising that this goliath of an action star can not tell a good action script from a bad one .  eraser , back in 1996 , was a confused film that made no attempt at all to make sense .  batman and robin , in 1997 , was the black sheep of the batman series with ridiculous acting , idiotic action scenes , and painfully flashy costumes .  now in 1999 , " end of days " ( not " the end of days " ) is the third strike in a tough at bat for arnold .  is this the end of a powerful action star's long-lived career ?  will arnold ever give us another unforgettable performance in another unforgettable classic like those in the past ( " terminator " , " terminator 2 : judgement day " , " predator " ) ?  or an unforgettable performance in a great guilty pleasure like those in the past ( " commando " , " red sonja " , " true lies " ) ?  it doesn't look that way .   " end of days " begins with the birth of a baby girl in 1979 who inexorably , due to the formation of the stars on that night , will be the carrier of satan's baby the hour before new year's of 2000 .  fortunately for the movie's sake , the girl grows up and now resides in manhattan with skyscrapers , subway trains in dark tunnels , and a myriad of inept nypd officers .  it's an action film's dream come true when the director is given tons of cool stuff to blow up .  imagine if the girl had lived in anytown , usa , where the only thing to destroy is a dairy queen and a post office .  arnold schwarzenegger ( jericho cane ) , in a series of boring events finds himself in the middle of a religious battle between the church , who is trying to hide the girl ( or in some cases trying to kill her ) , and satan ( gabriel byrne ) who is trying to make her pregnant .  if the devil is successful , the world will no longer exist as we know it .  jericho feels it is his duty to protect the girl from everyone because 1 ) he once had faith but no longer does and 2 ) his wife and daughter were killed and he feels responsible for it .  jericho cane is your cliched , by-the-numbers hero right up to his name .  arnold fittingly plays the character as cliched as he can .  he shouts at everyone , from cops to priests , to the devil .  in one truly hilarious scene , which was supposed to be the ultimate dramatic high point , jericho screams to the devil ; " you are a @#$^% ! &  choir boy !  you are a choir boy ! "  those two lines marked the high points of this film .  a movie can still be enjoyable when the supporting cast is more effective than the main actor .   " end of days " fails to contain any memorable performances with the exception of gabriel byrne .  byrne , playing a man who has been made the manifestation of the devil , seems to be the only one who is having fun in this whole movie .  he wonderfully plays a manipulative villain with the power to control everyone at any time .  the annoying thing about his character , however , is that he has the power to kill any human with a simple punch in the face , yet he finds it impossible to seriously hurt jericho .  i can not count the number of times he could have killed jericho and taken the girl from his custody .  the other actors in the film give very weak and unconvincing performances .  kevin pollak , who plays the partner and close friend of jericho , is the supposedly funny character in the film ( every action movie has one ) .  the one problem is that pollak does not deliver one funny line .  robin tunney plays the chosen mother of satan's baby with extreme annoyance .  she gets no sympathy from any of the characters in the film , except arnold who pretends she is his wife and daughter , or any of the viewers in the audience .  in one unnecessary scene , tunney walks out of her room and takes her top off .  is this her job in the film ?  the actors are not to blame entirely because the script is terrible .  you can tell a script is terrible when you are able to predict what will happen minutes before it does .  this little prediction game is a very fun exception to trying to sit through this nonsense of a movie .  in a last attempt to make this movie good , special effects are used to try to entertain the audience .  but without a memorable action scene in the whole film , the director has not done his job successfully .  this film would have gotten a c+ if arnold stood in front of a camera and shouted " you are a ! $@^@ * ^  choir boy ! ! "  for two hours .  
pos	ok , i admit i had a bad attitude about this film from the start .  a romantic comedy about the trials and tribulations of single working parents ?  with a couple of incredibly cute kids thrown in for good measure ?  yuck .  but it's not really too bad .  it has a lot working against it , for me at least .  in addition to the above , it is typical of a lot of recent movies in that it is really just a glorified made-for-tv movie , but longer and with bigger stars , and you have to pay to see it .  it does win you over , though , even if it is painfully predictable .  just think about it : two single parents , with their cute kids , are thrown together due to a missed field trip .  through a day of near disasters , they cont inually meet , get in one another's way , cause trouble for one another , and generally insult one another at every opportunity .  in fact , they hate each other so much that we know that they are , or soon will be , in love .  the only people who hate each other more than lovers are married couples .  so this film is predictable , just as the screwball comedies of the classical hollywood cinema were predictable ( and the screwball genre is obviously hoffman's model for this film ) .  will they get fired from their yuppie jobs ?  will they make the big soccer game that is so important to their kids ?  will pfeiffer realize what a jerk her ex-husband , a drummer for bruce springsteen , really is ( aren't they all ? ) ?  will they finally kiss ?  well , what do you expect ?  but there is a certain amount of satisfaction in having our expectations fulfilled , especially when it is done with as much humour , along with a lack of sticky sentimentality , as it is in this film .  pfeiffer and clooney have a certain chemistry together that is surprisingly charming , and the kids are neither shoved into the background nor allowed to steal the show .  one word of caution , though .  this film is being billed in some places as a " family " movie .  don't let that stop you .  however , i think most kids , especially boys , would be pretty bored by this move .  after all , nobody gets killed and there are no explosions .  all in all , a good , non-offensive date movie .  the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice .  
pos	the central focus of michael winterbottom's " welcome to sarajevo " is sarajevo itself , the city under siege , and its different effect on the characters unfortunate enough to be stuck there .  it proves the backdrop for a stunningly realized story which refreshingly strays from mythic portents ( " platoon " ) , racial tumultuosness ( the risible " the walking dead " ) or a tinge of schmaltziness ( " schindler's list " ) .  the two leads , stephen dillane as a reporter and emira nusevic as an orphan with a plight few can identify with , are extremely believable ; not one moment with them involved rings false .  the question is not what went right .  the question is what went wrong .  for one , the film fails to provide a political overview of the war as it progresses ( the dillane characters reports an american plane departing from sarajevo as it departs , and that's about it . ) .  the assortment of high-profile supporting actors , ranging from woody harrelson as a yankee reporter " into " liquor and cigarrettes to marisa tomei as a huggable children's aid or somesuch are incapable of rising above the sketchiness of their characters , albeit they strive .  the interrupted use of authentic war footage somewhat hampers the rest of the film , it makes the fictional characters seem powerless by comparison .  still , winterbottom eschews mawkishness through flashy , frantic editing and imaginative use of music .  and it's a plus , because he doesn't toy with our emotions with sentimental blandness .  he wants us to know that in war , no one is victorious .  the sweet hereafter  starring ian holm , sarah polley , bruce greenwood , tom mccamus , gabrielle rose , arsinee khanjian , alberta watson , maury chaykin , caerthan banks .  produced by atom egoyan and camelia frieberg .  script by atom egoyan ( based on the novel by russell banks ) .  directed by atom egoyan .  running time : 110 mins .  rated r . __________________________________________________________  atom egoyan's powerfully meditative " the sweet hereafter " is as anything as haunting and transcendental as i've seen this year .  it not only explores the aftermaths of a terrible tragedy with magnificent subtlety , with cold , and stunning shots of the backdrop of this mistfortune but also by telegraphing the sense of devastation that has permeated the small town with an enormous amount of dignity and respect for each and every soul affected .  ian holm as the somber , lonely lawyer seeking compensation for the townspeople , has a decency and a restraint uncommon with lawyers , he's a lion for the wrong reasons : the pain for having lost his daughter ( she's a druggie who frequently calls him begging for money ) is reflected on the town .  and in some mesmerizing flashbacks , we witness how she lost her purity .  it's one of the most strikingly breathtaking takes on the loss of innocence i've ever seen .  but the most astounding part goes to sarah polly , the peaceful , benevolent girl who , in contrast to the other characters , remains the most mentally stable during past , present or future .  her ability to convey concealed pain and unconditional love is the opposite , yet near-revolutionary role that won emily watson an oscar nomination for " breaking the waves " .  both women are torn apart by an extraordinary incident but it is only then that we truly see , truly feel , their wordless , omnipotent love .   " the sweet hereafter " though , is atom egoyan's movie and as of now , he is emerging as the definite face of independent cinema .  after surging to worldwide recognition with 1994's " exotica " , " the sweet hereafter " makes him something few people in this industry can call themselves : an artist .  he interweaves time with a delicacy and sees a soul with a purity that is just not common .  
neg	just not campy enough
pos	this bracingly truthful antidote to hollywood teenage movies that slather clearasil over the blemishes of youth captures the combustible mixture of a chafing inner loneliness and desperate grandiosity that tend to characterize puberty . 
neg	the concept behind kung pow : enter the fist is hilarious . it's too bad nothing else is . 
neg	this is the sort of burly action flick where one coincidence pummels another , narrative necessity is a drunken roundhouse , and whatever passes for logic is a factor of the last plot device left standing . 
pos	the pros of this film are the astonishing fighting scenes - absolutely incredible sword - moves and martial art show off . a true john woo masterpiece . the story tends to be a bit week though , but it never overshadows the overwhelming display of acrobatic martial art action . if you are into martial art movies , you are going to love this one !
neg	the performances are so leaden , michael rymer's direction is so bloodless and the dialogue is so corny that the audience laughs out loud . 
pos	the story itself it mostly told through on-camera interviews with several survivors , whose riveting memories are rendered with such clarity that it's as if it all happened only yesterday . 
pos	[reaches] wholly believable and heart-wrenching depths of despair . 
pos	it has more than a few moments that are insightful enough to be fondly remembered in the endlessly challenging maze of moviegoing . 
neg	for better or worse , the appearance of basic instinct in the movie marketplace gave the greenlight to a whole slew of overheated , oversexed , underwritten thrillers .  apparently not having joe eszterhas as the writer doesn't change a thing , since body of evidence wasn't written by him , but has a puzzling eszterhas-ish presence all over it .  in other words , it's a ) really dirty and b ) really , really stupid .  madonna ( first warning sign ) stars in body of evidence as a woman who has piles of money and no apparent job ; she lives on a houseboat and likes to parade around semi-naked , presumably for the edification of the shrimp .  she's been accused of having murdered an older man who was her lover .  already two classic examples of hollywood sexism are in effect -- the first being that any woman in a movie cannot be sexual unless she's under thirty ( or at least looks it ) , and that they usually only exist for the sake of studs or filthy rich older men .  what's worse is that the movie confirms all the above , and wallows in them as well .  madonna's character is accused of forcing sex on the old goat when she knew darned well he had a heart condition .   ( and yes , there are the obligatory cracks from the cops about how at least he died happy .  this movie leave no scummy stone unturned . )  anyway . willem dafoe ( very good but completely wasted ) also stars as the lawyer who is doomed to run afoul of madonna's sexuality .  how do we know this ?  because his character is set up with the token wife and kids .  how obvious is it that he's gonna cheat on her and have to fess everything up ?  and get kicked out of the house ?  and get welcomed back anyway ?  don't skip to the end yet ; we're just getting warmed up .  dafoe and madonna have a lot of sex in this movie .  most of it is about as erotic as open-heart surgery , since it involves such goodies as hot candlewax ( always the kink of choice among screenwriters who don't know the first thing about * really * kinky sex ) and smashed light bulbs .  don't ask .  another thing that people are starting to realize about explicit sex in movies is that unless it is critically important to the story , it's insanely dull .  what's worse is that body of evidence is dull * everywhere * , not just in the sex scenes .  the stuff in the courtroom is recycled ninth-hand from other bad courtroom drama scenes .  the thriller business itself is ridiculous -- it involves nasal spray bottles and drugs , and juergen prochnow as a surly doctor .  and the ending -- another homage to eszterhas , maybe ?  -- is one of those endings where you can almost see the exact * frame * where one of the five or six various endings to this mess was spliced in .  the director is uli edel , all the more disappointing since he also directed the elegiac and powerful last exit to brooklyn and christiane f . everyone has to eat , i guess , but this isn't a meal ticket , it's leftovers .  
neg	feels less like it's about teenagers , than it was written by teenagers . 
pos	it's a sharp movie about otherwise dull subjects . 
pos	though the violence is far less sadistic than usual , the film is typical miike : fast , furious and full of off-the-cuff imaginative flourishes . 
pos	try as you might to scrutinize the ethics of kaufman's approach , somehow it all comes together to create a very compelling , sensitive , intelligent and almost cohesive piece of film entertainment . 
neg	suffers from all the excesses of the genre . 
neg	this is a film living far too much in its own head . 
pos	chouraqui brings documentary-like credibility to the horrors of the killing field and the barbarism of 'ethnic cleansing . '
pos	the movie is well crafted , and well executed . if you're paying attention , the " big twists " are pretty easy to guess - but that doesn't make the movie any less entertaining . 
neg	adroit but finally a trifle flat , mad love doesn't galvanize its outrage the way , say , jane campion might have done , but at least it possesses some . 
neg	an afterschool special without the courage of its convictions . 
neg	a little weak -- and it isn't that funny . 
pos	while maintaining the appearance of clinical objectivity , this sad , occasionally horrifying but often inspiring film is among wiseman's warmest . 
pos	combines sharp comedy , old-fashioned monster movie atmospherics , and genuine heart to create a film that's not merely about kicking undead * * * , but also about dealing with regret and , ultimately , finding redemption . 
neg	 " desperate measures " is a generic title for a film that's beyond generic .  it's also a depressing waste of talent , with the solid team of michael keaton and andy garcia unthankfully thrown thankless lead roles , not to mention once-cool director barbet schroeder sadly continuing his string of not-cool flicks -- this thriller is more " before and after " than " reversal of fortune . "  the movie is a big disappointment , and yet it's somewhat easy to see what motivated such big names to attach themselves to it -- the premise is both promising and intriguing .  too bad the execution's all wrong , though , because the set-up of " desperate measures " boasts some rather enticing elements that deserve to be put to far better use .  san francisco cop frank connor ( garcia ) is a single parent with a troubling dilemma -- his son matt ( joseph cross ) is stricken with cancer which only a bone marrow transplant can push into remission .  even worse , the only compatible donor is violent sociopath peter mccabe ( michael keaton ) , currently serving a life sentence for multiple murders and other various crimes against society .  connor tries his best to convince mccabe to go along with the surgery ; he's at first reluctant , but reconsiders after he realizes he can plan his escape at the hospital .  when he does make a run for it , connor offers close pursuit , but for different reasons than his superiors ( including the crusty brian cox ) -- they want to take mccabe down , while connor needs to keep him alive , or all hope is lost for his little boy .  one misstep " desperate measures " makes is in its underdevelopment of matt's illness .  what's needed are more details as to exactly why mccabe is the only bone marrow match that works ; there would seem to be other possible contenders somewhere in the country , and thus many of the ways that connor endangers the lives of himself and those around him by attempting to keep mccabe alive are just a little too hard to swallow .  take , for example , a scene where mccabe is trying to make a getaway by climbing over an elevated passage tunnel connecting two sections of the hospital .  the police have their spotlight and guns aimed right on him , and what does connor do ?  he shoots the spotlight out so that mccabe can continue his flight .  connor knows very well what dangerous deeds this guy is capable of , and yet never seems to think that mccabe will eventually get to and try to harm his son .  whatever .  to be fair , though , the lack of story background is the least of the movie's problems .  first and foremost is how cheaply " desperate measures " trades the potential of it's opening scenes for the routine action ballistics of its final hour .  once mccabe escapes , the film becomes the fugitive in reverse and with no thrills .  there are countless scenes where the good guys catch up to keaton only to have him grab a hostage and get away .  also , the movie is so intent on giving you a hoot-inducing , lip-smacking villain ( the ads have compared peter mccabe to hannibal lechter , natch ) that it completely casts garcia's frank connor by the dullsville wayside ; " desperate measures " appears to like its antagonist so much more than its protagonist , and the movie's head-scratcher of a send-off confirms this .  there is some good to be found amongst this mess , particularly in the acting department .  cast against type , michael keaton's understated menace is highly effective .  although he's not given much believable to work with , andy garcia plays off a taut emotional chord .  joseph cross , as garicia's ailing son , is surprisingly unsentimental , and marcia gay harden lends solid support as a doctor who becomes a major player in the unfolding chaos .  this cast does its best to camouflage the sorry plot as it chugs towards an inevitably happy ending , but most is lost .  it goes without saying that " desperate measures " needs an operation of its very own .  
pos	an unflinching look at the world's dispossessed . 
pos	its adult themes of familial separation and societal betrayal are head and shoulders above much of the director's previous popcorn work . 
pos	a stylish but steady , and ultimately very satisfying , piece of character-driven storytelling . 
neg	nothing more than an amiable but unfocused bagatelle that plays like a loosely-connected string of acting-workshop exercises . 
neg	so what is the point ? lovingly choreographed bloodshed taking place in a pristine movie neverland , basically . 
pos	[d]espite its familiar subject matter , ice age is consistently amusing and engrossing . . . 
pos	a distant , even sterile , yet compulsively watchable look at the sordid life of hogan's heroes star bob crane . 
neg	dramatically lackluster . 
pos	spider-man is in the same category as x-men - occasionally brilliant but mostly average , showing signs of potential for the sequels , but not giving us much this time around . 
neg	watching the chemistry between freeman and judd , however , almost makes this movie worth seeing . almost . 
pos	imagine a scenario where bergman approaches swedish fatalism using gary larson's far side humor
neg	the chateau has one very funny joke and a few other decent ones , but all it amounts to is a mildly funny , sometimes tedious , ultimately insignificant film . 
pos	that thing you do !   ( r ) tom hanks's screenwriting and directorial debut , that thing you do ! , has all the qualities you would associate with the most beloved screen actor of the moment : fun , lively , and oh-so-nice .  it is the latter quality , however , that becomes a hindrance , for this '60s nostalgia trifle is so nice and sweet that it teeters on becoming bland milquetoast .  that thing focuses on the wonders , a teen rock band from erie , pennsylvania that is suddenly thrust into the national spotlight in 1964 when they score a major dance hit called , of course , " that thing you do ! "  the group's members are , naturally a diverse group : there's brooding lead singer and songwriter jimmy ( johnathon schaech ) ; girl-crazy lenny ( steve zahn ) , the lead guitarist ; a goofy , geeky type known only as the bass player ( ethan embry ) ; and the film's center , guy ( tom everett scott ) , the drummer who has aspirations in jazz .  along for the wonders' ride to success is jimmy's perpetually neglected galpal , faye ( liv tyler ) .  hanks proves to be a capable writer-director , deftly recreating the innocent spirit of 1964 , which hanks calls " the last innocent year . "  the spirit is not only reflected in the period clothes and settings but also in the music , which , like the other recent period music film , grace of my heart , was expressly written for the film ; hanks himself had a hand in writing four of the tunes--but not the infectious title cut by adam schlesinger , which is guaranteed to stay in your head long after the end credits have rolled ( it's still playing in my mind as i write this ) .  it should come as no surprise that hanks the director works well with the actors , eliciting charming , likable work from the entire cast , most notably hanks lookalike scott and tyler , who is remarkable in delivering the film's biggest and best dramatic moment .  the work of the young ensemble is so natural that they truly convince as teens of the early '60s ; they do not appear to be '90s grungers playacting " retro . "  yet for all the light , frothy charms of that thing you do ! , it's nearly nice to a fault .  while this unbridled innocence in film is a refreshing change from all the sinful cinema around these days , there is not enough conflict to keep things consistently interesting .  everyone is so happy , basking in the glow of overnight success , marvelling at it all--except toward the end , but even then the tone quickly reverts to sweetness , ending on an appropriately feel-good note .  there isn't much of an edge throughout that thing--the only thing that is remotely edgy is hanks's turn as the wonders' manager--and thus becomes in danger of being so nice it's bland .  but a little niceness goes a long way these days , and there's no denying the entertainment value of that thing you do ! ; it's just about impossible to hate .  it's an inoffensive , enjoyable piece of nostalgia that is sure to leave audiences smiling and humming , if not singing , " that thing you do ! " --quite  possibly for days .  to paraphrase a passage from the song : though i try and try to forget that song it is just so hard to do every time they play " that thing you do ! "  
pos	one of the best movies of the year . 
pos	this time out , [sade] is an unsettlingly familiar figure -- in turns loyal and deceitful , responsible and reckless , idealistically selfless and coldly self-interested . 
neg	tri-star ; rated r ( language , sexual situations , violence ) ; 87 minutes  director and writer : darren stein  cast : rose mcgowan , rebecca gayheart , judy greer , julie benz , chad christ , ethan erickson , carol kane , pam grier , tatyana m . ali .  review by : geoff berkshire  jawbreaker is the very definition of a " rip-off . "  this uninspired teen comedy takes equal parts carrie ( 1976 ) , heathers ( 1989 ) and clueless ( 1995 ) and mixes in all the necessary teen movie clich ? s .  along the way writer/director darren stein forgets to give the film a life of its own .  the film opens with a voice over from geeky fern mayo ( judy greer ) about the four most popular girls at reagan high : courtney shayne ( rose mcgowan ) who can basically be summed up as satan in heels , julie freeman ( rebecca gayheart ) a good girl with the face of a supermodel , marcie fox ( julie benz ) a dim-witted blonde who demands that people call her " foxy " , and liz purr ( charlotte roldan ) an angel in disguise .  liz is everyone's favorite because she's both beautiful and kind .  liz is about to turn 17 and , as a prank , courtney convinces the other girls to help her in kidnapping liz on her birthday morning .  in order to keep liz from making any noise courtney stuffs a jawbreaker into her mouth before they gag her .  they then stuff liz in the trunk of courtney's car but when they open it later , polaroid camera waiting to capture the moment , their lives will never be the same : poor liz has swallowed the jawbreaker and choked to death with it lodged in her throat ( the audience is treated to a few too many graphic looks at liz's dead body ) .  courtney , thinking fast , decides to pass the death off as a rape/murder and marcie and a reluctant julie assist her .  things get complicated when fern discovers what the three girls are up to .  in order to keep her quiet courtney comes up with another plan and transforms geeky fern into " vylette " , hoping that she will also help to replace liz in the minds of the devastated students .  up until about this point the film is effective enough .  however , an investigation begins into liz's death and the film becomes excessively dull .  the recently rediscovered talents of pam grier are thoroughly wasted in the role of detective vera cruz and the film is downright insipid in its treatment of both the characters and the audience during this long middle stretch .  courtney's plan to frame a sleazy guy ( marilyn manson , in a brief cameo ) is never believable for a second .  meanwhile , the audience is stuck watching a string of random events which fail to develop the characters or add anything of interest to the plot .  julie leaves the group and begins a lame romance with aspiring actor zack ( chad christ ) .  he apparently gives her the courage to turn on courtney but the way things develop only make julie look stupid .  fern's rise to popularity is equally lame .  we do get the best scene in the film ( the only one with a spark of originality ) during this section .  it's a smart and subversive bit where courtney gets the high school's resident jock stud dane ( ethan erickson ) to demonstrate , using a popsicle , exactly what he would like for her to do to him .  it at least provides us with a look at courtney's personality but the way the scene finishes doesn't make any sense .  stein is very conscious of the teen movie tradition he is working in and not only freely borrows major plot elements but also includes direct acknowledgment of this with some stunt casting .  william katt and p . j . soles ( students in carrie ) are liz's distraught parents , jeff conaway ( from grease ( 1978 ) ) is julie's creepy single dad and carol kane ( the frightened babysitter in when a stranger calls ( 1979 ) ) camps it up as principal miss sherman .  at times jawbreaker feels simply like teen cinema's greatest hits but the audience is cheated with watered down interpretations of the best this genre has to offer .  the only notable aspect of jawbreaker is the incredibly stylish look .  the costume design by vickie brinkford and the production design by jerry fleming are both bright and vivid .  they were apparently instructed to work from the color palette of a jawbreaker and the screen is always splashed with bits of vibrant color .  director of photography amy vicent , who beautifully lensed eve's bayou ( 1997 ) , does a remarkable job here as well .  shot composition and camera movement is consistently impressive .  performances are mostly sub-par with mcgowan providing only a few good moments ( compared with her excellent work in the doom generation ( 1995 ) and scream ( 1996 ) ) and gayheart making the biggest impression due to the sweet nature of her character and her obvious beauty .  none of the actors look as if they have set foot inside a high school within the last five years with the exception of actress/singer tatyana ali , who has a small role as a cheerleader .  the male cast all resemble male models and are credited with names like " auto stud , " " college stud , " and " high school stud #2 . "  the soundtrack is decent and imperial teen's catchy " yoo hoo " makes a bigger impression than any other aspect of the film .  
neg	cattaneo should have followed the runaway success of his first film , the full monty , with something different . 
pos	uneven but a lot of fun . 
pos	this is as powerful a set of evidence as you'll ever find of why art matters , and how it can resonate far beyond museum walls and through to the most painfully marginal lives . 
pos	parker cannot sustain the buoyant energy level of the film's city beginnings into its country conclusion
pos	will hunting ( matt damon ) is a natural genius .  for a movie character , that's usually a death sentence .  it's a trait associated with what my brother calls " too good for this world " movies , like phenomenon or powder .  forgive me for spoiling the ending , but will doesn't die .  this is no formula movie .  in fact , it's quite fresh and original .  it's a character study more than anything , and that's not surprising , considering it was written by two actors : damon and co-star ben affleck .  will works whatever kind of job he can get .  first he's a janitor , then he works construction .  off-screen he speed reads books on any academic subject that interests him .  on-screen he hangs out with his friends , picking fights in robust , romanticized-hemingway fashion .  lambeau ( stellan skarsgard from breaking the waves ) , a math professor , learns that the janitor ( will ) is a genius with a special talent for advanced mathematics .  having confirmed he's not a fluke or a savant , he does what he can to get will into the education system .  he is firmly rejected .  finally , will lands in jail for one of his fights .  lambeau can get him probation instead of prison time as long as will agrees to therapy sessions and to discussing mathematics with him .  will ( barely ) decides to go for the therapy over prison .  lambeau treats will like a son .  he's proud of , and amazed by , will's accomplishments in mathematics .  he encourages will and tries to give him structure , knowing that , with a little discipline , he could be bigger than einstein .  will isn't really interested in academia .  he knows he would be the best in his field , and therefore spend all of his time in an office , explaining math to people like lambeau .  he would rather work construction , which breaks lambeau's heart .  meanwhile , will attends his mandated therapy sessions .  it's not long before he shreds all the therapists on lambeau's " a " list .  will has read enough psychology to know the tricks of the trade , and how to keep them from affecting him .  shrink after shrink refuses to return after will's mockery .  lambeau's last hope is his old college roommate , now a psychology teacher at a small-time community college .  knowing that will is going to try to shred him too , sean ( robin williams ) agrees to take him on as a favor to lambeau and for the chance to meet this next einstein .  true to form , will finds sean's emotional weakness and attacks .  but unlike the other shrinks , sean knows what he is in for and continues the sessions .  like a foster mother with a fussy child , sean knows that the attacks are defensive and is able to take them in stride .  like the foster mother , sean knows that time and quiet patience is the only approach .  robin williams is excellent in this role .  he's not an actor with a great range , but in the right roles he has great depth .  in this movie , as in awakenings , there comes a point when the quiet , shy man accomplishes something of great personal importance , and a smile of pure joy spreads up to his eyes .  williams is the only actor i can name who can make an audience cry just by smiling .  i have compared will to a foster child and that's not entirely fair .  emotionally , he has a lot to learn , but he is not a child .  he has thought about his life and made rational decisions about what he wants .  sean , his girlfriend , his pals , and lambeau all help him grow , but he didn't start out asking for , or particularly needing , help .  his exceptional gift singled him out , and those who love him kept pushing him in the right direction .  if i had to say anything bad about good will hunting is that it walks the line between drama and melodrama .  it's too sentimental and uplifiting for a straight drama , but the emotions are too subtle for melodrama .  it is emotionally engaging , but it's not quite larger than life .  this isn't a problem per se , but at times i didn't know quite how to take it .  but this is a relatively small complaint about a very good movie .  a good movie allows its characters to learn and grow .  it doesn't just happen ; it takes a good script , good acting , and good direction .  good will hunting has all three .  if you are at all inclined to see it , by all means , go .  
neg	the story is about the life of common people from antwerp , living their lives . so i said it , and there is nothing more actually to tell about the story . the movie is fast , like an mtv - flick , and well photographed and we feel that the director is talented and should do more films . so let 's forget about this one and hope for the best with the next deus - barman picture .
neg	it's a drag how nettelbeck sees working women -- or at least this working woman -- for whom she shows little understanding . 
pos	 " antwone fisher " is an earnest , by-the-numbers effort by washington . it won't rock any boats but is solid meat-and-potatoes filmmaking . 
pos	what's so fun about this silly , outrageous , ingenious thriller is the director's talent . watching a brian depalma movie is like watching an alfred hitchcock movie after drinking twelve beers . 
neg	in the past , tim burton has taken cinema by storm with the action packed batman , and the hilarious ed wood , but lately his films just don't cut it .  sleepy hollow has some unique features , but the script is a terrible mess .  for those who remember disney's fantastic " adventures of ichabod crane " , it is actually superior to this .  disney's version was at least interesting , while burton's film drags on far too long , without any suspense or frights .  while the stories are similar , the new version adds too much to the once likable story , and throws in some weak dialogue to top it off .  ichabod crane ( johnny depp ) is now apparently a constable , who was sent to new york to investigate suspicious murders .  the victims are headless , and no traces of evidence were found , until the murderer reveals himself , hence the headless horseman .  now with the help of christina ricci and an orphaned boy , they must stop the headless horseman from a killing spree , that could destroy the whole town of sleepy hollow .  sure the headless horseman is an intriguing character , but the story has so many holes that even he nor depp can save this disaster .  in the original , the headless horseman was meant to be unstoppable .  no one could stop him , not even ichabod .  by the end of the film , it had audiences in deep thought .  burton however concentrates far too much on the atmosphere , and how to make the main characters heroes .  he takes no risk what so ever , and this is where he fails .  another pathetic element of the film was the script .  like i said earlier , he just stuffed too much in at one time , and made it look real sloppy , kind of like the mess the headless horseman made with his victims .  he completely butchered the story to pieces .  thankfully there are a few factors that i particularly liked .  the acting by depp was quite notable .  he took the nerdy character of the cartoon , and simply acted it out in a better manner .  if it wasn't for his quirky one-liners , i doubt i could have remained awake , because quite frankly i was getting sleepy .  just when i thought christina ricci was getting to be a good actress , she winds up doing this .  it just goes to show no actress or actor can pass up a big blockbuster .  it's too tempting to let go , even if the script is mush .  the atmosphere too was quite involving .  i should have just gazed at the sets , and the eerie fog , rather than actually pay attention to what was going on .  at least burton's films are eye candy , even if they are trash .  the only real scenes of value were the tree full of heads , and the fight between the horseman , depp and casper van dien .  other than that , i wish i could just fast forward through all the gaping holes in the film , and just sit back and stare at the scenery .  by the end , i can only think back and laugh at how bad sleepy hollow developed .  this is the biggest disappointment of the year , especially when such a talented director like burton handles a project like this .  don't waste your time or money , because your head will feel hollow .  
pos	left me with the visceral sensation of longing , lasting traces of charlotte's web of desire and desperation . 
pos	i walked away from this new version of e . t . just as i hoped i would -- with moist eyes . 
pos	a mess , but it's a sincere mess . 
pos	it's a visual delight and a decent popcorn adventure , as long as you don't try to look too deep into the story
pos	the kind of movie that comes along only occasionally , one so unconventional , gutsy and perfectly executed it takes your breath away . 
pos	often hilarious . 
pos	this movie for what it is , may be one of the most amazing indie films of recent day . made on a super small budget , the film has special effects that blow away alot of the current films ! if you have a chance watch it !
neg	there's not much going on in this movie unless you simply decide to buy into the notion that something inexplicably strange once happened in point pleasant . 
pos	i've never bought from telemarketers , but i bought this movie . 
neg	the movie is as far as you can get from racy , to the point where it almost stops the blood flow to your brain ; it has a dull , costumey feel . 
pos	i don't know how many other people have had the idea cross their mind that their life could be an ongoing television show watched by another world of people , but it's something i used to wonder about when i was younger .  i can't decide if i first thought it because i watched a lot of tv or because my brother hit me in the head with a baseball bat , but i'm pretty sure andrew niccol , screenwriter for the truman show , has had the same curious thought .  the truman show is about a man ( jim carrey ) whose entire life has been engineered by a corporation and marketed to the public .  since birth , he's been living in the fictional island town of seahaven , fla . , which actually exists as a giant domed set just beyond the hollywood sign .  all the people in truman burbank's life are actors , and the anonymous townfolk paid extras .  people watch truman's life 24 hours a day , live , with no commercial interruptions .  revenue comes instead from product placement , a staple of contemporary hollywood , with truman's friends and relatives describing their consumer items in cheerful and optimistic tones .  the sun rises and sets on cue and everyone likes everyone else .  even if you haven't seen the truman show , you've probably learned most of the crucial details from the commercials , the trailer and other promotion blitzes .  if anything i've written so far is a surprise to you , then i pity you for making me a primary source for your entertainment news .  either way , you should probably know the premise of the truman show going into it , because otherwise you'll probably think it sucks .  it begins with jim carrey looking into a mirror , reciting the crucial " eat me " scene from alive , wishing his neighbors a good day , afternoon and evening , and living in domestic bliss with his wife ( laura linney ) .  but weird things start happening .  a stage light comes falling out of the sky , truman hears people tracking his movements on the radio and he swears he sees his dead father .  we learn through a flashback that his father drowned when truman was a child , sailing through a rainstorm .  the death was staged by director christof ( ed harris ) , who wanted to put a fear of water into truman to keep him from leaving the island .  similar cruel manipulations keep him from stumbling upon the truth , not the least of them truman's best friend marlon ( noah emmerich ) , who assures him he's not in on any conspiracy because the last thing he'd ever do is hurt him .  as truman's trusting eyes tear over , christof fades up emotional synthesizer music for a worldwide audience of people who apparently never watch anything else .  there's even a daily behind-the-scenes update from harry shearer that captures the highlights of truman's existence .  the key to a movie like this is in finding the right balance between humor and drama , because a premise like this has its obvious implications in both directions .  and it all hinges on carrey , who has to balance comic naivet with a real sense of longing and drive to find out what the hell is going on .  he's come a long way from talking butt cheeks in ace ventura .  most fundamentally , it's just plain interesting to follow along as director peter weir shows us just how they can capture a person's life without the person realizing it -- how they coordinate extras , hide cameras and feed automatic lines to actors .  the most interesting thing about the truman show is that most of us can probably imagine some ambitious director pitching a show like this .  sure , the most interesting tv genre of the '90s has been reality programming and jerry springer's popularity is through the roof , but those people deserve to be humiliated for turning their intimate details over to the airwaves .  and when news shows use hidden cameras , it's done in the name of the greater good , not entertainment .  but merge the two and you've got the truman show .  right now , it's implausible -- i mean , the fcc won't let you say the s-word on the air ; do you think they'd let you broadcast every detail of a man's life to the entire world without his consent ?  one day , though , it could happen .  and , even though it would mean the end of privacy , people would eat it up .  you know they would .  
neg	like its parade of predecessors , this halloween is a gory slash-fest . it can't escape its past , and it doesn't want to . 
pos	 . . . a polished and relatively sincere piece of escapism . 
pos	while in a plane , flicking through the large choice of movies , i came across live ! almost accidentally . oh boy ! what a choice . i remembered vaguely seeing the trailer over a year ago and completely forgot about it expecting no more than another cheesy nonsense movie about a stupid reality show . now i can easily say this has been a hell of a ride . i do n't remember last time i have been so excited , terrified . not sure if it was the high altitude playing with my senses , but the suspense grow gradually through the movie until reaching a climax where you ca n't turn away from the screen , literally sitting on the edge of your seat and biting the remaining nails you 've got . you will first go through a personal moral assessment of where you stand about the righteousness of the show . you will drift from thinking " how come the human being can be so vicious " to " why not after all?".ask yourself would you do it . then learn about the contestants , their motives and start guessing . you will then watch contestant pulling the trigger one by one and get excited even though you know the first candidate is safe . good acting , good directing , with a movie experience that reminds you those old movies where you knew what would happen in the next scene but still were craving for more . * spoilers * couple of things i would have changed : - the casting of the contestants . i have really been moved by the farmer and we should have had a bit more like him . the idea of a rich writer who wants to be famous is a bit stupid , it felt like you did n't care about some of the contestants . although this might have been done on purpose , i think the audience should have been able to associate with the majority of the contestants . - game rules , a big glitch : what happens if the 5th contestants does n't die when he pulls the trigger . do you seriously think the last standing guy will pull the trigger and execute himself ! ! ! they should have given a chance to all contestants to live , ie : if 5th is a blank too , then no one dies . interestingly i have n't been bothered too much by this bad points cause i really had a good time . just wish i had some popcorn with me !
neg	if you're over 25 , have an iq over 90 , and have a driver's license , you should be able to find better entertainment . 
pos	this may be dover kosashvili's feature directing debut , but it looks an awful lot like life -- gritty , awkward and ironic . 
pos	 . . . somehow manages to escape the shackles of its own clichés to be the best espionage picture to come out in weeks . 
neg	despite some comic sparks , welcome to collinwood never catches fire . 
neg	 " have you ever heard the one about a movie so bad that it made a guy run out of the theatre screaming ? "  obviously the producers at columbia tristar did not think that we suffered enough from the first installment , and so to finish us utterly , they have now released " urban legends : final cut " .  this is another " scream " -like feature , consisting merely from the recycled materials of rip-offs from the most pointless movies of all time .  amy ( jennifer morrison ) is a film student who is attending a film school filled with uninspired film students who do not have a clue about what to do .  but just as she reaches the halfway mark of her final semester at prestigious university's film program -- where each year's best thesis production takes the coveted hitchcock prize , a virtual one-way ticket to hollywood success -- she has a chance encounter with campus security guard reese ( loretta devine ) , whose tale of a series of murders based on urban legends at another university inspires amy to try her hand at a fictional thriller organized along similar lines .  soon enough , fake -- and real -- blood starts to flow , and amy is being chased around by scary killer , while her cast and crew get slain , one by one .  is the culprit the original urban legends murderer , just some random psycho , !  a member of the faculty , one of her competitors for the hitchcock , or is there something even more stupid going on ?  this is another one of those tiring , pointless teen slasher flicks : neither scary , funny , or interesting .  it simply lacks the ability and the story to entertain .  the body counts and screams continue to grow , as the weak level of intelligence sinks rapidly .  in fact watching films like that after having watched " scary movie " is impossible keeping a serious face .  several times i tried to prevent myself from laughing , without succeeding .  and then i realized that practically the whole theatre was laughing .  it's the same thing that has been told and told and told over and over again as if it was the revelation of the century .  how many times must we tolerate the same clich ? s that have haunted the slasher genre since its birth ?  it has been so many films about masked killers that most of us have developed an allergy for them .  they are the most stupid , meaningless , predictable and soulless films in existence .  however , director john ottman manages to make " urban legends : final cut " into one of the worst achievements of this godforsaken genre .  what was done with a sense of redemption for past failures and irony in " scream " , ottman takes seriously .  for that reason alone , it is worth a look , just to realize how bad a movie can be .  it's tough to find comparisons for such an achievement , and we have to dig in ancient history to find a movie that would match its intellect .  even movies like " lost in space " and " mission to mars " seem spectacular in its shadow .  we have not seen such waste of t !  ime and resources since " showgirls " ( 1995 ) .  no matter how hard i tried to find positive elements in this so called production , i came up with nothing , except the way the killer was dressed .  here i feel that i have to compliment the costume designers trysha bakker and marie-sylvie deveu , that have wisely replaced the well known scream-mask with a very elegant fencing mask .  jennifer morrison ( " stir of echoes " ) is all right , and the other actors' best achievement is keeping a straight face when pronouncing the words from the script .  in fact the only thing that is terrifying about this film ( with the exception of its screenplay ) is its portray of film schools .  if these graduates will be the directors of the future , then hollywood's golden days are over .  rumors are already spreading through the internet that columbia tristar is already developing a third installment .  let's just hope and pray that it's just an urban legend .  
pos	uneven , self-conscious but often hilarious spoof . 
pos	bound to appeal to women looking for a howlingly trashy time . 
neg	 . . . watching this film nearly provoked me to take my own life . and if the hours wins 'best picture' i just might . 
neg	fantastically over hyped , godzila finally lumbers onto the big screen .  the film opens with footage of nuclear testing on the french polynesian islands , then an attack on a boat from some beast , and finally we join dr . nick tatopoulos ( broderick looking about 17 years old ) doing some research in chernobyl .  some shady u . s government guys appear , and ask him to come to an island where they have massive footprints , from what looks like a giant lizard .  and what's more , this beast is heading for new york .  gulp !  although godzilla should be a non stop roller coaster ride , and at some points it is , there is something curiously uninvolving and unexciting about this movie .  the main faults lie with the acting and writing , common problems with 'summer blockbuster' movies .  broderick is pretty useless as the hero , with no humour or a 'tough guy' image .  while emmerich's previous summer flick , independence day ( 1996 ) had wisecracks and action from jeff goldblum and will smith , this has neither .  also , maria pitillo , as broderick's former girlfriend , is just as useless , with a chronic disability in acting .  she's incapable of showing emotion , speaks every line in the same way , and basically she's total crap .  it's up to french actor jean reno to save the day , and indeed he does , turning in a campy performance as a french secret agent .  shame he has such little screen time in such a overlong film .  hank azaria also turns up as a crazy cameraman named 'animal' , and he adds a little life to the picture .  also making an appearance is harry shearer ( probably best know for doing voices in the simpsons ) as a slimy news reporter .  o . k , so the acting is not up to par , but it never is in these movies .  but what about the script ?  well , that's not up to par either .  emmerich and screenwriting pal dean devlin seem so caught in the destruction of new york city that they forgot to write a script .  the dialogue is banal ( broderick looks at a lot of fish and utters 'that's a lot of fish . ' ) , and the character development is non existent ( reno plays the typical frenchman ( 'no croissant ? ' ) ,  broderick forever remains a geeky scientist . )  also , the film is seriously lacking a sense of humour .  the jokes that are uttered are pathetic , and there's an 'hilarious' running gag about siskel and ebert .   ( the mayor is mayor ebert , and is assistant is called gene !  ha ha ha ha ! . )  the plot is dire , and in the end just rips off jurassic park ( 1993 ) by having lots of baby godzilla's ( i . e .  velicorapters ) running around new york .  right , so the script and acting suck .  but what about the special effects ?  thankfully , they're are quite good .  godzilla is an impressive piece of cgi , although we don't see much of him because the movie is so dark .  the destruction of new york is pretty well done aswell .  but although they are impressive , they can't save godzilla from being an hugely disappointing and boring movie .  the movie goes on for far too long aswell , and it can't seem to decide on a ending .  and of course , the ending itself leaves possibility for a sequel .  let's just hope one never arrives .  
pos	romantic comedy and dogme 95 filmmaking may seem odd bedfellows , but they turn out to be delightfully compatible here . 
pos	the two leads chomp considerably more scenery with their acting than fire-breathing monsters barbecue with their breath . . . 
neg	this is a film about the irksome , tiresome nature of complacency that remains utterly satisfied to remain the same throughout . even as the hero of the story rediscovers his passion in life , the mood remains oddly detached . 
pos	 " it's not good to know too much about someone , charlie , " charles warns his niece , charlie ( margaret welsh ) , with a devilish grin .  charlie is infatuated with her namesake uncle , her " soul mate " as she calls him since her mother gave her his name .  there's a lot to know about charles , not the least of which is that he strangled 3 widows back east .  mark harmon , who looks like anything but a killer but specializes in playing them , plays charles , the merry widow murderer in the 1991 hallmark hall of fame remake of the 1943 hitchcock film , shadow of a doubt .  and to avoid any questions about his guilt , we see charles in action in the opening scene with his last victim .  the story takes place in the early 1950s in the small town of petaluma , california , where charles heads to avoid the police .  john gay's script uses most of the original screenplay by sally benson , alma reville , and thornton wilder .  karen arthur's direction is certainly no match for the great master , but on an absolute scale , the movie maintains a high level of suspense .  when supercilious and deceitful charles comes to pay a visit of indeterminate length with his sister and her family in petaluma , they don't know about his nefarious activities .  he showers them with elaborate gifts to buy the love they had already given him anyway .  two mysterious and exceedingly clean-cut writers for a magazine show up to take pictures of the family for a spread on the " average american family , " but their interest is focused on uncle charles , especially on taking his picture and learning about his background .  charlie , who first welcomed her uncle's visit , begins to feel more and more uncomfortable with him and suspicious of the disingenuous magazine reporters .  the picture advances with a delicate power using small details such as the newspaper article that the uncle tries secretly to remove and that charlie discovers .  the beauty of the story is the pas de deux between uncle and niece as they try to out psych each other .  she wants him to leave , and he doesn't want to go , what with a local , rich widow as a prospective victim .  will charles kill charlie first , or will she get him out of town .  harmon is wonderfully creepy and smug , and welsh is tough but trapped .  with a deft touch the director sets up each scene , several with thunderstorms , and tom neuwirth's sepia-toned cinematography makes the movie feel as if it were filmed in the 50s .  my only quibble is the director's awkward staging of the final scene on the train .  is hitchcock's version better ?  of course .  is this one worth watching as well ?  actually , yes .  shadow of a doubt runs 1 : 40 .  it is not rated but would be pg for adult themes and would be fine for kids around nine and up .  
neg	it used to be that not just anyone could become a vampire .  usually , you had to be an aristocrat - a count such as dracula or karnstein .  to qualify , you'd have to have a modicum of sophistication , so you'd at least look cool - or suave - when biting into some young damsel's throat .  but today , in our overly politically correct world , any scuzzy-looking , long-haired , unshaven lout or any spiked-haired harridans can put the bite on you .  by the same token , to be a vampire hunter , one had to have some sort of medical training and knowledge of the occult or maybe perhaps be some sort of professional soldier , or at least one who retired with honors .  not in these times .  all you need are some sharp weapons , some bullets forged from silver and any yahoo can be a buffy - or a blade .  without sounding elitist , the fear of vampires has greatly diminished because of this lack of exclusivity .  which brings us to blade , the latest in a long line of vampire movies in which , it seems , half the population is putting the bite on the other half .  not only are there thousands of vampires , but they seem to move from city to city , pay off police departments and , most importantly , establish their own exclusive after-hours raves in which the highlight is the sprinkler system going off and dousing all the occupants in a blood shower .  with all that blood , you wonder why they have to hunt for victims .  you also wonder when they get the time to get their clothes dry-cleaned and why no cleaner ever complains about all the bloodstains .  blade , which is based on a marvel comic book character , is , like a comic book , all visual .  the plot is basically blade repetitiously slashing his way through the vampire army seeking their leader , deacon frost .  it's all hokum and nonsense , of course .  but the filmmakers play it straight .  unfortunately , at least at the advance screening i attended , the audience didn't see it that way and laughed through much of the proceedings .  you know a movie is in trouble when the scenes of blood and gore that should elicit screams of fright instead evoke peels of laughter .  another tell-tale sign is when the audience seems to be admiring the hero's costume more than the hero .  also it seems it's not enough for today's vampire merely to have fangs .  he must also be proficient in the martial arts .  why a supernatural being , one of the undead , needs such skills is beyond me .   ( of course , this concept dates to the 1974 hammer films-run run shaw production of legend of the seven golden vampires , in which dracula is defeated by seven karate-chopping siblings . )  wesley snipes is buff as blade .  he growls his lines -the few he has - and spends most of the time glowering - as if he was suffering from indigestion or having second thoughts about starring in and co-producing this turkey .  blade is just another example of how the vampire film , a once honorable member of the horror family , has gone downhill .  this dud mostly makes you yearn for those quaint old days when christopher lee could be stopped just by dangling a crucifix in his face .  today's vampires lack the panache , the style of a bela lugosi or a christopher lee .  they are not even worthy enough to carry those great bloodsuckers' capes .  they are more farcical than frightful .  this whole enterprise is one dull blade that could have used lots of sharpening .  
neg	confuses its message with an ultimate desire to please , and contorting itself into an idea of expectation is the last thing any of these three actresses , nor their characters , deserve . 
neg	a potentially good comic premise and excellent cast are terribly wasted . 
pos	having not seen , " who framed roger rabbit " in over 10 years , and not remembering much besides that i liked it then , i decided to rent it recently .  watching it i was struck by just how brilliant a film it is .  aside from the fact that it's a milestone in animation in movies ( it's the first film to combine real actors and cartoon characters , have them interact , and make it convincingly real ) and a great entertainment it's also quite an effective comedy/mystery .  while the plot may be somewhat familiar the characters are original , especially baby herman , and watching them together is a lot of fun .  the story begins in hollywood in 1947 .  cartoon star roger rabbit is blowing takes and having trouble keeping his mind on work , so hard-boiled private detective eddie valiant ( bob hoskins ) is called in by studio head r . k .  maroon ( alan tilvern ) to try to help get roger's mind back on work .  maroon thinks that roger's wife , jessica's , possible unfaithfulness to him might be the cause of distraction and tells eddie to get some photos of her in the act before it costs him any more money in reshoots .  valiant takes some photos of jessica playing , `patty cake' with marvin acme ( stubby kaye ) , the owner of toontown ( where all of the cartoon characters live ) and takes them to maroon .  upon seeing them , roger is emotionally destroyed and soon after acme is found dead and roger rabbit is the prime suspect .  the rest of the movie follows valiant and roger as they run around town ( and eventually toontown ) trying to clear roger's good name .  along the way they meet judge doom ( christopher lloyd ) a judge-jury-and executioner type who's out to get roger and has discovered the one and only way to kill a `toon . '  `who framed roger rabbit' won 4 academy awards including a special achievement award for richard williams for animation direction and creation of the cartoon characters ( williams and his teams went through the film frame by frame and hand drew the cartoon characters in ) .  director robert zemekis must be given an equal amount of praise for overseeing the entire production , which included hundreds of animators .  also bob hoskins' performance should be credited .  he , in addition to the rest of the human cast , finds the right note to play in all of the scenes with his cartoon co-stars .  according to the internet movie database , hoskins studied his young daughter to learn how to act with imaginary characters and i guess his hard work paid off .  `who framed roger rabbit' is a rare film .  one that not only presented a great challenge to the filmmakers but one that can be enjoyed by the whole family ( although some very young viewers may be a little scared by judge doom ) .  do yourself a favor and rent it , `p-p-p-p-please . "  
neg	there are enough throwaway references to faith and rainbows to plant smile-button faces on that segment of the populace that made a walk to remember a niche hit . 
pos	the movie should be credited with remembering his victims . 
neg	it's a movie forged in the fires of chick flick hell . 
pos	the film doesn't sustain its initial promise with a jarring , new-agey tone creeping into the second half
neg	this has got to go down as almost one of the worst movies of all time . awful acting , awful script ... and they were the good points ! one to definitely miss ! the jokes , if you could call them that , were so predictable as to be pathetic . pamela anderson is still relying on her body to detract from the fact that her acting is just as plastic ! i sat willing to give it a chance , hoping that it was going to improve which , alas , it did n't ! if it was a choice between this and a book , i suggest you settle down for a good read ! i like denise richards , which is why i gave this movie a go , but why she has let her self be cast in this movie is beyond me !
neg	offers absolutely nothing i hadn't already seen . 
pos	just offbeat enough to keep you interested without coming close to bowling you over . 
pos	successfully blended satire , high camp and yet another sexual taboo into a really funny movie . 
neg	tommy lee jones chases an innocent victim around america who is trying to prove that she did not kill her spouse .  the fugitive ?  not quite ? this is the plot for double jeopardy , another fugitive copycat without the action , excitement , and good acting that the original had .  there are other slight differences besides one movie being bad and the other good ; this time tommy lee jones plays a parole officer not a us marshall , clever huh ?  oh and the fugitive ashley judd was framed by her own husband ( bruce greenwood ) who needed to collect two million dollars in life insurance money not a one armed man .  both movies are on video .  make the wise choice and pick the fugitive .  there are so many flaws in double jeopardy , it is laughable .  while serving time in prison , libby parsons ( judd ) discovers that she can never be charged for committing the same crime twice .  learning that her husband is still alive , she decides to serve her time in prison , find him , retrieve her son , and kill her husband if necessary .  when the strict parole officer travis lehman ( jones ) stands in her way , libby decides to break the rules ( who knows why ? ) and continue her plan , despite the fact that if she gets caught , she's going back to jail .  director bruce beresford spends way too much time trying to convince the audience that libby misses her son .  every other scene , we are given a shot of libby staring and crying at his picture .  in an action movie like this , valuable time wasted on these shots takes away more opportunities for libby to get up and do something .  all that is needed in this type of movie is a short scene in which libby tells herself or a friend " i miss my son . "  nothing more , nothing less .  dr . kimble of the fugitive didn't look at one picture of his dead wife , his primary concern was to save himself .  libby at times shows this same determination but not nearly enough .  ashley judd and bruce greenwood both are excellent actors but if they continue to do movies like this , they will be typecast for the rest of their careers , kind of like their doomed co-star tommy lee jones .  winning an oscar for the fugitive must have convinced jones that audiences will never get tired of his i-do-my-job-whether-they-are-innocent-or-guilty roles .  people still pay to see his movies and he makes plenty of money so i guess he was right .  though i don't think he will win another oscar again .  the ultimate mistake in the script is what eventually becomes of libby parsons .  even if she was excused for disobeying her parole officer , the number of other crimes she commits while on the run are too numerous to count .  burglary , assault , grand theft auto are some of libby's slipups .  the message of the movie is you can break all of the small laws as long as you're innocent of the major crime .  hopefully criminals won't use double jeopardy as a reference in court for why they are innocent .  that would just be plain stupid .  
neg	thoroughly awful . 
pos	the gags that fly at such a furiously funny pace that the only rip off that we were aware of was the one we felt when the movie ended so damned soon . 
neg	i can see a decent sports movie struggling to break free of oliver stone's `any given sunday' .  it's an entertaining movie that offers both insight and excitement into the rock-em , sock-em profession of pro football .  unfortunately , the director seems to have only one priority on his mind : sprucing up the film with an assortment of fancy camera maneuvers .  in altering each frame with quick-flash photography and dizzying , in-your-face editing , stone appears to have completely ignored the matter of plausible character development and football politics .  we see glimpses of greatness , but `any given sunday' has its agenda all tangled in technical gobbledy-gook .  it grows tiresome and monotonous .  yes , stone has pulled a brian depalma .  matters of importance are pushed aside right from the get-go .  tony d'amato ( al pacino ) , coach of the struggling miami sharks , finds his team stuck in a losing rut .  aging quarterback cap rooney ( dennis quaid ) appears to be losing his touch , and d'amato can't seem to ignite any passion in his squad .  when cap is injured on the field , and after a patch of unlikely events occur , third-string qb willie beaman ( jamie foxx ) is brought into the game .  once in the huddle ( and this becomes an in-game ritual ) , beaman horks all over the field .  nerves , you see .  eventually though , the ancy youngster wins the game for his teammates , sparking his rise to fame in the football world - the endorsements , the music videos , etc . - and stone straps us in for the jolting ride of behind-the-scenes stress and fury that the business is apparently like .  and i believe it .  there is some intriguing insight posed , but in the big scheme of things , stone fumbles the ball .  the problem with the director's visual approach is this : he uses extravagant editing devices when a more conventional approach would have been appropriate .  football is an exciting game to watch , but stone seems to think dizzying the audience with an assault on the senses will only add to the adrenaline rush .  i guess he is mistaken .  `any given sunday' is a visual kaleidoscope that leaves the audience in a frustrated stupor more frequently than it excites them .  many football fans ( including one i attended with ) are liable to be disappointed with the `ultra-stylish' way stone has decided to present the game .  in return , a three-star film becomes unfortunately degraded due to the director's tampering .  in welcome scenes when the visual pummeling comes to a break , this actually shows decent character development and interaction .  for instance , heated returns between d'amato and feisty young owner christina pagniacci ( cameron diaz ) are enjoyable to watch .  there is also a solid performance from jamie foxx , who experiments with great success in his first trek into dramatic territory .  the stellar supporting cast includes matthew modine , aaron eckhart , lauren holly , ann-margret and charlton heston ( in an extraordinarily brief appearance ) .  unfortunately , too many big names are wasted - a typical demise for a film with such a large and experienced cast .  pacino makes some interesting progress with his character .  you begin to identify with coach d'amato and the morals he is striving for . . . .  but i often felt he was just another play thing stone could weave in and out of his editing dynamics .  `any given sunday' is a watchable but disappointing sports film in which plot and characters take a back seat to excessive filmmaking technique .  and a very distant back seat , at that .  
pos	you've heard all the hype .  you've seen all their faces - natalie portman ( the professional ) as queen amidala , liam neeson ( schindler's list ) as qui-gon jinn , ewan mcgregor ( trainspotting ) as obi-wan kenobi , and jake lloyd ( jingle all the way ) as young anakin skywalker .  if you've read any reviews , you've also probably heard that this movie fails to live up to the magic and humanity of the first trilogy .  you also may have heard that this one's too kiddie-friendly , and doesn't have enough content for adults .  believe the hype .  the effects are stunning , the digitalized creatures are amazingly realistic , the lightsaber duels are amazing , and queen amidala's sumptuous robes are fit to be worn by queen elizabeth .  but there's something missing here , and it isn't budget or effects - it's everything money * can't * buy .  the actors struggle as best they can to flesh out broad-stroked and flat characters .  the most successful at this is liam neeson who , as qui-gon jinn , a jedi master to young obi-wan kenobi , has quiet dignity and a wise , commanding presence .  he is the anchor to this movie , as he is the one character who george lucas apparently spent some time fleshing out .  portman's queen amidala and mcgregor's obi-wan kenobi don't fare nearly so well .  amidala , the future mother of luke and leia and the queen of a peaceful planet being invaded by the trade federation ( ? ! ? ) , comes off as stoic , stilted and caricatured ( it appears as though she was a vulcan geisha in a former life ) .  and obi-wan , although mcgregor makes him very endearing , has so little screen time that he's nothing but a robin to qui-gon jinn's batman .  however , mcgregor does struggle manfully to infuse this surprisingly small supporting role with a spark of genuine insight and humanity , and he does a good job .  he also absolutely nails alec guiness' ( obi-wan in episode 4 - 6 ) scottish accent , and that really makes his presence in the film more profound than it might have been otherwise .  in fact , lucas seems to bank on that preexisting knowledge quite a bit , and that's one of the problems with this film .  i would never call myself a " star wars " fan - especially not considering what it means to be a fanatic these days - but i've always enjoyed the films along with everyone else in america .  however , if you are the one person in america who * hasn't * seen the films at all or even recently , or who doesn't bother to brush-up on the names of obscure characters , you may be hopelessly lost .  for example , one of the film's main ( nefarious ) characters is senator palpatine .  for those of you not recently steeped in " star wars " trivia , emperor palpatine is that scary hooded apparition who was darth vader's master in " return of the jedi " and " empire strikes back . "  so , obviously , his appearance in " phantom menace " is meant to stir some echoes of his later role in the series , thus making his role here more meaningful .  a lot of the movie is like that .  r2-d2 and c-3po make token appearances , and it's obvious that lucas is banking on the audience's pre-existing fondness for them . . .  because he doesn't do much to add to it in any way .  same goes for jabba the hutt , who doesn't look as much mean here as he does corpulent and lazy .  even * planets * make foreshadowing guest appearances in this film - tatooine ( the desert world where luke grew up ) , coruscant ( the cloud city from " empire strikes back " ) , and alderaan ( leia's home planet - which we never actually see - that gets blown up in " star wars " ) show up or are mentioned briefly in passing .  what's the result of tying so many plot points and characters to future films ?  the answer is that this one seems surprisingly empty .  there's no meat - no substance - that makes you want to love the characters as they are , not as they will be .  another problem is that there are actually * too many * alien characters in the film .  i was distracted by the fact that two of the main evil characters - strange looking aliens who looked like gila monsters - had mouths that barely moved , making them look more like muppets than actual characters .  and jar jar binks , a silly roger rabbitish amphibious character , is intended as comic relief , but what he really becomes is annoying - and fast .  unlike chewbacca and c-3po , who got their humanity ( if you'll pardon the expression ) from their interactions with the human characters , jar jar is often left to interact mostly with others of his kind , at times making the movie seem like nothing more than a very expensive " teenage mutant ninja turtles . "  furthermore , the dialogue is often stilted and corny , and sometimes downright infantile , thereby rendering some characters into nothing more than bystanders to the plot .  oddly , this isn't just * my * judgment - lucas has said that he designed this film for kids .  well , he's done a good job .  the hero of this film , of course , is young anakin , but it was very hard for me to feel any kinship or identify with an eight-year-old boy .  that's not jake lloyd's fault , though - he does a good job of being a cute kid , which is apparently all lucas asked of him .  that's another mistake , of course , because the cute tyke becomes darth vader .  warning : spoilers ahead ! ! ! !  in my opinion , there was not nearly enough foreshadowing of anakin's future evil in the film .  the boy is all blond flowing hair and rosy cheeks , and there's nothing more than a spark of aggression in him throughout the entire movie .  he has a doting mother ( pernilla august , making her first english- language film ) and is a slave to a gross flying gnome on tatooine .  but the only indication the audience gets that this kid isn't all hearts and roses is yoda's hesitation in allowing him to train as a jedi under qui-gon jinn .  his explanation ?   " his future is clouded . "   ( warning : major spoiler ahead .  enter at your own risk . )  of course , the noble qui-gon dies at the hand of darth maul , a scary-looking sith lord who excels at the jedi arts , but has turned to the dark side .  this dude has maybe two lines in the entire movie , but he establishes his presence through his amazing moves with his double-sided lightsaber , and his scary facial makeup .  because qui-gon never gets a chance to train the young anakin in the ways of the force , obi-wan , qui-gon's young padawan apprentice ( one level below knightdom ) , must take over the training himself .  so , at the end of the movie , we end where the saga actually begins - with obi-wan kenobi and his young apprentice , anakin " darth vader " skywalker .  did this story need to be told ?  i would say no .  but is it a worthwhile movie to see ?  absolutely .  if you don't enter the theater with jedi-size expectations , and you simply want to be treated to an enjoyable visual spectacle , then this is your movie .  the tatooine pod races are a triumph of effects and computer animation .  the digitalized backgrounds on some of the planets are an astonishing sight .  and yoda and young obi-wan are worth seeing for their origins in a simpler , happier time .  above all , this is a fun movie .  not deep , not meaningful , and not profound .  but fun .  maybe next time , lucas will hire lawrence kasdan to co-write the script , and the guy who directed " empire " will direct .  because if lucas does the next one himself , it will be lacking the one thing it needs the most - potential .   : )  
pos	the saturation bombing of reggio's images and glass' evocative music . . . ultimately leaves viewers with the task of divining meaning . 
pos	a moving and weighty depiction of one family's attempts to heal after the death of a child . 
neg	the movie's plot is almost entirely witless and inane , carrying every gag two or three times beyond its limit to sustain a laugh . 
pos	tone alone cannot sustain a film , but it can go a long way .  if i can find myself lost in the time and place of a story , it scores immediate style points .  when that tone is backed up by an outstanding story and great acting , the effect can be described best by an adjective i do not use lightly : " literary . "  what's eating gilbert grape ?  is such a film .  it's a rich , memorable and stunningly acted story of desire colliding with responsibility , staged in a manner which many viewers might find too prosaic , but which insinuated itself into my imagination with its confidence .  gilbert grape ( johnny depp ) is a young man living in rural endora , iowa , facing incredible responsibilities .  as the man of the house since his father's suicide , gilbert must support the family by working at the local grocery store .  he also must watch over his mentally handicapped brother arnie ( leonardo dicaprio ) and help care for his extremely overweight mother ( darlene cates ) .  gilbert seems destined to spend the rest of his life in the small town until the arrival in endora of becky ( juliette lewis ) , a free spirit passing through with her grandmother when their truck breaks down .  as he spends time with becky , gilbert begins to think about all the things he is missing .  slowly his resentment builds , until he realizes that he can no longer live his entire life for other people .  director lasse hallstrom ( my life as a dog ) and legendary cinematographer sven nykvist create a magnificent visual backdrop for peter hedges' screenplay , based on his own novel .  endora is a town on the edge of the world represented by the giant foodmart , a tiny insular community where everyone knows everyone else .  the midwestern sunsets and sprawling fields are beautifully photographed , and the atmosphere of the town is intensely real .  minor characters , like crispin glover as the town's mortician , are vividly realized , and there are echoes of the last picture show in mary steenburgen's desperately unhappy housewife .  one of the most perfectly realized scenes focuses on the grand opening of a burger franchise , attended by the entire town and accompanied by the off-key high school band .  not a single note in the depiction of endora rang false .  the same can be said of the character of gilbert .  it's testimony to the precision involved in his creation that he came together completely with one perfectly placed line , when becky responds to gilbert's description of his father with , " i knew someone like that once . "  gilbert is a man harboring an ever-growing bitterness about where he finds himself in life , a bitterness which reveals itself in moments of surprising cruelty .  in one scene , he allows local children to look at his mother through their window , displaying her like a side show attraction .  his entire life seems to be mocked by arnie's repeated chants of , " we're not going anywhere , " but instead of expressing his dissatisfaction he lets his anger simmer , and it becomes clear that he is following in his father's footsteps in this regard .  johnny depp expertly demonstrates the tension central to gilbert by playing everything below the surface , but he never gives in to one-dimensional blankness or simply regurgitates his naif roles in benny & joon and edward scissorhands .  depp's performance is overshadowed , however , by leonardo dicaprio's astonishing oscar-nominated supporting work as arnie .  he puts to shame such big name actors as john malkovich and dustin hoffman , whose mentally challenged characters never seemed completely real .  dicaprio is perfect to the last twitch and squeal , and anyone who has ever spent time with mentally challenged kids will be hard-pressed to spot a flaw .  darlene cates , a first-time actor , brings real pain to her scenes as gilbert's tortured mother , and laura harrington and mary kate schellhardt are solid as gilbert's sisters .  only juliette lewis doesn't quite click , playing a critical role with her now familiar dopey drone and too little genuine spark .  gilbert grape does seem to drift into its conclusion , but it never lost me .  thanks to a lovingly created setting and a marvelous cast , this 1993 release proves well worth the wait .  
neg	human nature initially succeeds by allowing itself to go crazy , but ultimately fails by spinning out of control . 
pos	french production in which leading film directors from 11 countries were invited to create 11-minute short films conveying their reflections on the events of september 11 . the film segments vary widely in content and quality . two allude to u.s. complicity in terrorist acts ( in chile against allende , who died on september 11 , 1973 , depicted in the segment by british director ken loach ; and in palestine by u.s .- backed israelis , shown in the segment from egyptian director youssef chahine ) . two more recall other destructive acts ( a palestinian suicide bombing in tel aviv , shot by israeli director amos gitan ; the japanese " holy war " against the west in ww ii , by shohei imamura ) . ironies abound in several stories . shadows that darken the new york city apartment of a grieving old man suddenly disappear as the world trade towers telescope to the ground in sean penn 's piece , bringing the man momentary joy . but in this bright light he can finally see that his wife is really gone . in mira nair 's film , based on a real incident , a missing young man , also in new york city , the son of a pakistani family , is first presumed to be a fugitive terrorist , but later he proves to a hero who sacrificed himself trying to save others in the towers . there are poignant moments dotted throughout . loach has his exiled chilean man quote st. augustine , to the effect that hope is built of anger and courage : anger at the way things are , courage to change them . imamura tells us that there is no such thing as a holy war . samira makhmalbaf shows a teacher with her very young afghan schoolchildren , exiled in iran , trying to tell them about the events that have just transpired in new york . but they are understandably more impressed with a major event in their refugee camp , where two men have fallen into a deep well , one killed , the other sustaining a broken leg . this is comprehensible tragedy on a grand scale for the 6 year olds .   idrissa ouedraogo , from burkina faso , creates a drama in which the son of an ailing woman spots osama bin laden in their village and gathers his buddies to help capture the fugitive terrorist , in order to get the $ 25 million u. s. reward . he tells his friends not to let any of the adults know their plans , for the older folks would merely waste the money on cars and cigarettes , while he plans to help his mother and others who are sick and destitute . it is mexican director alejandro gonzalez inarritu ( maker of " amores perros " ) who provides by far the most powerful and chilling segment , one that , for the most part , shows only a darkened screen with audio tape loops of chanting and voices and occasional thudding sounds . brief visual flashes gradually permit us to see bodies falling from the high floors of the towers , and it dawns on us that the thuds are these bodies hitting the ground . the sequence ends with elegiac orchestral music and a still shot , bearing a phrase first shown only in arabic , then with a translation added : " does god 's light guide us or blind us ? " ( in various languages with english subtitles ) grade : 8/10 ( b+ ) . ( seen on 10/31/04 ) . if you 'd like to read more of my reviews , send me a message for directions to my websites .
neg	this is the worst movie i've seen since the " so bad i walked out on it " " jingle all the way " .  it is crap on toast made of crap baked in a an oven fueled by crap .  it is crap through and through .  nothing works in this film , as to be expected from joel schumacher , who has made only one watchable film in his entire career ( that being " cousins " ) .  here's a man who admits he's a medicore director , a rather charmingly self-effacing statement .  but truth be told , he is much worse than mediocre .  not all scorn should be heaped on schumacher though -- akiva goldsman should not be allowed to write ever again .  there is no plot anywhere , and the " dialogue " is unrelentingly shallow , preposterous , and boring .  they set up mr . freeze as a tragic figure trying to cure his cryogenically frozen wife , then completely sabotage his character by giving him the lamest one-liners .  it turns him into a stock maniacal villain who thoroughly enjoys his villainy instead of a brooding scientist who has spent much of his life to bringing his wife from the brink of death .  but that's par for course -- nothing in this film makes any sense , including half of arnold schwarzenegger's lines .  as mr . freeze , arnold is given way too much dialogue to spit out at once .  this is the same problem he had in " jingle all the way " , and it seems that his austrian accent is getting thicker and more unintelligible as the days pass .  personally , i think that he has more pull with the directors and doesn't retake scenes to make him understandable .  compare his dialogue in the terminator series to the load of nonsense that streams forth in " batman & robin " .  apparently , james cameron knows how to get a competent performance out of arnold .  uma thurman is not as bad , but nothing resembling good either .  her poison ivy vamps around terribly , chewing up scenery left and right .  and her pamela isley scenes are marred by sub-snl standard " acting " , as if she's reading off cue cards and is about to laugh at any given moment .  given the " script " , it's a wonder it didn't happen more frequently .  there is no redeeming feature in this film -- not george clooney as batman , chris o'donnell as robin , nor alicia silverstone as batgirl .  michael gough is eerily sickly looking as alfred , as if the conceit of his illness was prompted by his cadaverous appearance .  in fact , there was something unsettling about his appearance , which seems to have been accomplished without any make-up tricks , looking as if it were scenes from a documentary about a dying man .  unfortunately , every scene about alfred's sickness is bungled with such incompetence that there is absolutely no emotional resonance -- they just go through the motions , losing whatever impact the scenes were supposed to impart .  the movie is rife with poorly choreographed fights scenes that never give any sense of a big battle -- you know there's a bunch of people , but instead of a melee , schumacher decided to focus on a foot or a fist .  there's never a moment of awe , wonder , or mayhem .  the only interesting part of the battles scenes are the freezing effects , which are impressive ( and probably expensive ) .  even then , the fights are so full of camp and stupidity that they become unwatchable .  the hockey team from hell ?  not even the tv series got that stupid ( at least not on the grand scale of stupidity that " batman & robin " showcases ) .  frustrating too are the various supporting characters that walk on and off with nothing to say or do .  blink , and you'll miss elle macpherson as julie madison , vivica fox as a " why is she even in the film " vamp in freeze's lair ( with all of two lines ) , and pat hingle as the most ineffectual commissioner gordan the batman series ever had .  and in what almost seems like an effort to save on costs , vendela kirsebom has no lines as mrs . fries -- she isn't even filmed well enough to look good ( trust me , she's quite attractive outside of this dreck ) .  and as if the film weren't bad enough to limp along with bad direction , bad dialogue , bad performances , and bad fight scenes , there are inconsistencies and illogic galore .  i know it's nit-picky to ask where the hundreds of feet of cable are stored in the batarangs , why the character's arms aren't ripped out of their sockets when they accomplish a one-armed batarang save after falling hundreds of feet ( while holding on to another person no less ) , or where the moisture comes from when freeze's weapon creates tons if ice .  that's all traditional comic book stuff .  but why does batman spring a trap for freeze at a public charity event that endanger the lives of hundreds of by-standers ?  why is there a big switch clearly marked , " heat " in mr . freeze's lair ?  why do countless bumbling police officers even try to take on mr . freeze hand to hand ?  why does alfred encourage silverstone to become batgirl and even go so far as to have a suit made for her ?  why do batman & robin take 10 minutes to bicker before leaving the batcave in response to an emergency ?  and since it established early on that ivy is using pheromones , why don't they wear masks to filter it out ?  i could go on and on .   " batman & robin " is a braindead , pointless , garish , loud film that should still reign as the " worst film of the year " by the time 1998 rolls along .  note to warner bros . -- if you're going to make another batman film , please replace schumacher with nearly anyone .  because it could actually get worse than this .  what schumacher does not understand is that " comic book " doesn't automatically equal unbearable idiocy .  the true equation seems to be schumacher + batman = unbearable idiocy .  
pos	since their film debut in 1984 with the tightly wrought texas thriller " blood simple , " joel and ethan coen have been one of the most eclectic , original , and downright fascinating creative teams in modern hollywood .  their films are highly stylized , deeply embedded in a particular time and place , and their characters are more often than not everyday people who get caught up in highly unusual circumstances .  in " the big lebowski , " their first cinematic offering since the multiple academy award-winning " fargo , " the action takes place in los angeles during the gulf war , and the hero of the story is jeff lebowski , aka the dude .  the dude is played by jeff bridges -- one of hollywood's most underrated actors -- in the best stoned performance since sean penn stumbled through the halls of ridgemont high .  the dude is a simple man who has never quite made it out of the sixties .  he has shaggy , shoulder-length hair , a grizzled goatee badly in need of a trim , and he wears mostly stained tee-shirts , long shorts , and gellies without socks .  he smokes a lot of pot , drinks a lot of white russians , and is more than content to spend the majority of his time bowling with his two buddies , a slightly psychotic vietnam vet named walter sobchak ( john goodman ) and donny ( steve buscemi ) , one of those guys who always wants to be part of the conversation , but never quite makes it in .  one day , the dude is confused with another jeff lebowski ( david huddleston ) , this one being a millionaire philanthropist whose trophy wife , bunny ( tara reid ) , owes a lot of people a lot of money .  the main plot and all its accompanying side-plots and coenesque diatribes are far too complicated to get into here .  suffice to say that the dude becomes deeply involved with the big lebowski when bunny is kidnaped and the dude is asked to be a courier for the ransom money .  by the time all is said and done , walter has become deeply involved , as has the big lebowski's daughter , maude ( julianne moore ) , a feminist performance artist , a pornographer named jackie treehorn ( ben gazzara ) , and a group of german nihilists led by peter stormare , who was so great as the silent but deadly kidnaper in " fargo . "   " the big lebowski " plays like an amalgam of all the coen brothers' earlier efforts .  it shares their previous films' strong sense of time and place , as well as their send-ups of movie genres and political and cultural ideologies .   " lebowski " has the same kind of crazed caricatures that made " raising arizona " such a hoot ; it has surrealistic dream sequences ( one of which involves a busby berkley-like dance number ) that characterized the ending of " barton fink " ; and it has the same kind of cartoonish look and feel that pervaded " the hudsucker proxy . "  the film was shot by veteran cinematographer roger deakins , who has worked with the coens on three other films , " barton fink , " " the hudsucker proxy , " and " fargo . "  deakins always gives the coens' films a distinctive visual style , and here he does a brilliant job of capturing the bright colors of seedy los angeles in the early nineties , whether that by the obnoxious blue bowling suit worn by the dude's main competitor jesus quintana ( john turturro ) , or the strikingly manic dream sequences , one of which involves the dizzy spectacle of watching a strike from a bowling ball's point of view .  if " fargo " was the coen brothers' most restrained effort in years , " the big lebowski " marks their return to over-the-edge filmmaking .  it is overflowing with style and attitude , which helps make up for the scattered plot fragments that never quite come together in the end .  the coens fill the screen with lighting , set design , music , and hilarious performances from all the leads , especially bridges and the always reliable john goodman , who shows real comic timing in his untimely 'nam-inspired outbursts and his intense dedication to his adopted judaism .  with joel directing , ethan producing , and both writing , the coen brothers seem limitless in their capacity to turn our world inside out .  their talent lies not in their ability to reflect the norms of reality , but in their potential to dig out the darkest corners of life and bring them to light .  the coens rejoice in the oddballs of the world , and they put them center-stage to show that it's not just guys like the dude who are nuts , but the entire planet .  
pos	parts seem like they were lifted from terry gilliam's subconscious , pressed through kafka's meat grinder and into buñuel's casings
neg	i'm guessing the director is a magician . after all , he took three minutes of dialogue , 30 seconds of plot and turned them into a 90-minute movie that feels five hours long . 
pos	this gorgeous epic is guaranteed to lift the spirits of the whole family . 
pos	towards the middle of " the sweet hereafter , " a crowded school bus skids on an icy road surface as it rounds a bend , careens through the steel guard rail , and disappears out of sight .  then , in long shot , we see the vehicle slowly sliding across what looks like a snow-covered field .  it pauses for a moment before the " field " cracks under the bus' weight and the bright yellow vehicle vanishes in an effortless moment , a single smooth second of time .  compare that scene , if you will , to the last eighty minutes of " titanic , " when the behemoth sinks slowly and spectacularly to its watery demise , and you'll appreciate the futility of comparing greatness in films .  the scene in " the sweet hereafter " epitomizes all that's right with independent canadian director atom egoyan's film .  it's not sensational .  we don't see the inside of the bus with its payload of screaming , terrified children being bloodied and battered about .  the bus doesn't explode or break into a thousand tiny pieces .  it simply leaves the road and silently slips beneath the surface of a frozen lake .  it's a horrifying sequence made all the more so by calm and distance .  using a non-linear approach to his narrative , egoyan shifts back and forward in time , connecting us with the inhabitants of the small british columbian town who have been severely affected by this tragedy .  fourteen children died in the accident , leaving their parents and the town itself paralyzed with grief .  the catalyst at the center of the film is ambulance chaser mitchell stephens ( a wonderfully moving performance by ian holm ) , who comes to sam dent to persuade the townsfolk to engage in a class action suit .  stephens , who " doesn't believe in accidents , " functions as a concerned , involved observer , scribbling details in his notebook and providing the parents with an opportunity to reach some kind of closure in the harrowing aftermath .  while stephens' initial drive may be financial ( one third of the total settlement if he wins ) , his involvement provides him more with an outlet to come to grips with his own loss .  his self-destructive , drug-addicted daughter has been in and out of clinics , halfway houses and detox units for years .  egoyan's attention to detail and ability to establish mood are so impeccable that even the sound of a kettle boiling resonates like a plaintive cry .  mychael danna , who composed the shimmering music for " the ice storm , " contributes another memorable score that shivers and tingles .  equally impressive is paul sarossy's cinematography , capturing the imposing canadian mountainsides and low-hanging fogs as splendidly as his shadowy interiors--in one scene a bright wall calendar serves to illuminate portions of a room .   " the sweet hereafter , " while undeniably grim , urges the viewer to grab onto life with both hands and not let go .  it's a film of generous subtlety and emotion .  
neg	wallace gets a bit heavy handed with his message at times , and has a visual flair that waxes poetic far too much for our taste . 
pos	an eerily suspenseful , deeply absorbing piece that works as a treatise on spirituality as well as a solid sci-fi thriller . 
pos	disney has always been hit-or-miss when bringing beloved kids' books to the screen . . . tuck everlasting is a little of both . 
neg	the plot is paper-thin and the characters aren't interesting enough to watch them go about their daily activities for two whole hours . 
neg	with a completely predictable plot , you'll swear that you've seen it all before , even if you've never come within a mile of the longest yard . 
neg	an occasionally funny , but overall limp , fish-out-of-water story . 
neg	we get light showers of emotion a couple of times , but then -- strangely -- these wane to an inconsistent and ultimately unsatisfying drizzle . 
pos	moonlight mile gives itself the freedom to feel contradictory things . it is sentimental but feels free to offend , is analytical and then surrenders to the illogic of its characters , is about grief and yet permits laughter . 
pos	broomfield turns his distinctive 'blundering' style into something that could really help clear up the case . 
pos	writer/director alexander payne ( election ) and his co-writer jim taylor brilliantly employ their quirky and fearless ability to look american angst in the eye and end up laughing . 
pos	i think the first thing this reviewer should mention is wether or not i am a fan of the x-files .  first , let me assure you that no prior experience with the series is required to fully enjoy this movie .  the producers are not stupid , making a movie just for fans of the series is not profitable .  you have to reach for a larger audience .  therefore , the movie is quite user-friendly .  altough , non-fans will only fail to understand certain emotions behind the looks many characters exchange .  but fear not , duchovny and another man later on provide more than adequate background info on what is going on .  you will never feel as if you just walked in on the third act of some great opera .  in any case , the answer is no .  i am not a fan of the x-files , i only watch it when nothing else is on and i prefer millennium .  however , since the fox network as been so kind as to air several key episodes for several weeks before the movie's opening weekend i took that opportunity to test the movie .  i taped all of these episodes and watched them only after seing the movie , i am glad to report that i learned nothing new .  everything you need to know is explained to the viewer by duchovny and others .  i know i am going maybe a bit too far to make my point but everybody should get the chance to experience this movie .  warning : major spoilers follow !  please do not read to fully enjoy this movie , you must not be able know what is coming , what exactly is over that hill and what that weird " hummm " sound is all about .  you have been warned .  the x-files is what a summer should be .  exciting , scary , great special effects ( unlike other summer movies the effects do not take over the movie and are only there when it is really necessary ) and good performances .  this is coming from a guy who thinks david duchovny is the human equivalent of a wooden plank .  from start to finish , this movie does not let go of you .  when i compare it with last summer's movies the best way to describe it would be : take the excitement and great score from face/off and the deadly use of sound from event horizon .  this flick is scary , not in a b movie kind of way where you always know where and when the critter will jump at our heroes .  in fact , the first time the critter in this movie makes an apperance it is totally out of the blue .  you might as well bring ear plugs because this thing is louuuudd !  the last time a monster scared me that much was when i first saw aliens as a six year old kid .  you know , when you are affraid to put your feet on the floor because the creature might be under the chair , or when you keep trying to cover your throat with your shirt ?  so yeah , the x-files is scary .  and guess what ?  you never even have to see the monster but your imagination works overtime and it sure beats having to watch a flawed , computer generated , babyzilla , it looks like you could walk right through it not even scarier than your grandma in undies type of monster .  do not think that the x-files is a monster movie .  in fact , the creature is there for maybe three minutes total .  no , the x-files is definately a mulder episode of the series .  scully is at his side , of course , but gillian anderson gets maybe half the screen time .  she has a couple of good scenes with duchovny , but she gets kidnapped during the last half hour of the movie so she does not get to do much .  no , this is mulder's time in the spotlight .  by now , you have heard of the scene where mulder " showers " independence day .  if you have not then i will not spoil it for you , let's just say that due to recent events mulder should be " showering " godzilla instead .  to those of you wondering if mulder discovers that the truth is indeed out there . . . who  cares ! ?  if he did find it the series would over anyway so what are you complaining about ?  the dialogue in interesting and the director is marvelous .  the camera is almost always looking over the shoulder of our heroes so we feel as if we are right there with them when they open a door or climb a hill .  the script is spotless , every thing that happens happens for a purpose .  if you are confused by something , do not worry because it will all become clear later on but , and i cannot stress this enough , pay attention ! ! !  unlike most summer movies , the dialogue is twice as important as the effects .  miss one vital piece of information and , like most people who talk during movies , you will go home and tell all your friends how this movie made no sense .  also , to those people who need to go to the bathroom during movies . . . don't !  the person who watched the movie with me had to go twice and twice she missed an important conversation .  there is no time to take a breather between scenes because , again unlike most summer movies ( godzilla anybody ?   ) the x-files does not need to fill scenes between the suspense and the action with useless subplots , every scene is crucial and serves a purpose .  who needs to see the blond chiouaoua have a " big emotional scene " between godzilla attacks ?  so far this summer i have seen only one movie who ranks higher on my list of movies i'd recommend and that is the truman show but it only wins by a nose .  but the truman show is not what i would call a summer movie , the x-files is .  what more do you ask from a summer movie other than the chance to be excited ?  cool effects ?  it's got some .  pulse pounding ?  hell yes !  strangely enough , i think that fans of the series will hate this movie while non-fans will have a good time .  it does not provide answers to the show's many questions , the status quo remains nearly the same and , no , mulder and scully do not get together .  rating : four and a half out of five stars for the best movie yet this summer , several jump right out of your seat thrills , many " whoah , i never saw that one coming ! "  moments , four " holy shit , where the hell did that come from " and one heck of an ending .  you may wonder where this movie lost half a star .  well , i swore never to give a movie the full five stars so i had to find something about the in his ice truck , the tracks it leaves in the snow behind him go on for several miles but then they just stop .  it's pretty obvious the film's makers drove the truck for several miles to give the appearance that mulder had been driving for a long time , but in the end it looks like mulder just dropped from the sky and started driving .  
neg	susan granger's review of " jeepers creepers " ( mgm/ua entertainment )  this nasty , little horror film begins as a bickering brother ( justin long ) and sister ( gina philips ) are driving through the desolate countryside on their way home from college and spy a man dropping wrapped-up bodies down a drainage pipe .  when long decides to investigate , there's nothing but trouble .   " you know the part in scary movies where somebody does something really stupid and everybody hates them for it ?  - well , this is it ! "  philips warns .  what he finds in the basement of an old , abandoned church is a dying boy with a horrifying , jagged-stitched incision from his neck to his navel , plus hundreds of other mutilated bodies , stitched together on the walls and ceiling like a disgusting tapestry .  long flees but now the monstrous , winged creeper ( jonathan breck ) is after both of them !  eileen brennan appears briefly as the cat lady and patricia belcher is jezelle , a psychic who explains the evil creature's bizarre feeding habits .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " jeepers creepers " is a fiendishly visceral 2 with an extraordinarily gruesome conclusion , giving new meaning to the old song " jeepers creepers . "  and now - as paul harvey would say - for the rest of the story .  what's more scary than the cruelty of the satanic film itself is the fact that writer/director victor salva is a convicted child molester who videotaped himself having oral sex with a 12 year-old actor in california .  sentenced to three years in prison , he served 15 months and completed parole in 1992 .  when salva made " powder " ( 1995 ) , the story of an albino boy with supernatural abilities , disney studio executives claimed that they did not know about his prior conviction as a pedophile .  and now , once again , in this mgm/ua film , that fact is conspicuously absent from his press kit bio .  
pos	metaphors abound , but it is easy to take this film at face value and enjoy its slightly humorous and tender story . 
pos	creepy , authentic and dark . this disturbing bio-pic is hard to forget . 
pos	the second jackal-based film to come out in 1997 ( the other starring bruce willis was simply entitled the jackal ) , this one stars aidan quinn and donald sutherland , and is directed by a man who hailed from joblo's own alma matter , concordia university in montreal , canada .  the story is based on the exploits of the real terrorist known as the jackal , but does not pretend to be 100% factual .  plot : naval officer ramirez ( quinn ) gets called upon by the cia to impersonate the international terrorist known as the jackal , in order to put an end to the actual militant's radical activities .  he is chosen for this role because he physically resembles the real terrorist to a tee .  ramirez reluctantly agrees to take part in this " assignment " , and soon finds himself wrapped up in a true web of international terrorism , intrigue and double-personality syndrome ( which does not sit well with his uninformed wife and kids back in the states . )  critique : great premise is executed with enough style and thrills to keep the piece interesting throughout its close to two-hour runtime .  admittedly , i wasn't a huge fan of any of the main actors in this film , and didn't expect much from this movie beforehand , but surprisingly it did have its thrilling moments , as well as a mostly plausible and absorbing story line .  the first hour is mostly just a build-up of things to come , and does offer a great characterization of the jackal , but the second hour is the one that really cranks in the cool scenes and a sweet ending .  quinn was adequate in both roles as naval officer ramirez and the real jackal , but didn't offer anything extraordinary , in my opinion .  sutherland and kingsley seem to be playing the same role that they've played in both of their respective careers of late , but nonetheless , appeared to relish the cold-heartedness of their chosen characters .  i didn't like performance put forth from quinn's wife in this flick , but then again , she doesn't show up in most of the film , so that wasn't so bad .  i did however enjoy director duguay's interesting style and cinematic vision .  this thriller could easily have been boring during many sequences , but duguay always seemed to find something interesting to show the viewer .  i thought that was neat .  having said that , i didn't think the first hour needed to be as long as it was , and the film did have me tinkering on the bridge of believability when the " fake " jackal met with the " real " jackal's girlfriend without much retrospection on her part , but all in all , not too many complaints in a movie that could easily be enjoyed by all those who take pleasure in the spy and terrorist thriller genre .  little known facts : ben kingsley's real name is krishna banji , he stands 5 " 8 , was born in scarborough , england , and won the best actor honor in 1982's academy awards presentation for the title role he portrayed in ghandi .  many scenes from this film were actually shot in montreal , canada ( joblo's haven of restfulness ) .  donald sutherland has fathered actor kiefer sutherland , is canadian , and apparently still owns a place in the north of montreal .  
neg	a compendium of solondz's own worst instincts in under 90 minutes . 
neg	there is very little dread or apprehension , and though i like the creepy ideas , they are not executed with anything more than perfunctory skill . 
pos	it's the cute frissons of discovery and humor between chaplin and kidman that keep this nicely wound clock not just ticking , but humming . 
neg	even when crush departs from the 4w formula . . . it feels like a glossy rehash . 
pos	you wouldn't call the good girl a date movie ( an anti-date movie is more like it ) , but when it's good , it's good and horrid . 
pos	how good this film might be , depends if you believe that the shocking conclusion is too much of a plunge or not . 
neg	who are 'they' ? well , they're 'they' . they're the unnamed , easily substitutable forces that serve as whatever terror the heroes of horror movies try to avoid . they exist for hushed lines like " they're back ! " , " they're out there ! " and " they're coming ! " 
neg	has all the scenic appeal of a cesspool . 
neg	apparently , romantic comedy with a fresh point of view just doesn't figure in the present hollywood program . 
pos	few films this year have been as resolute in their emotional nakedness . 
pos	the sight of the spaceship on the launching pad is duly impressive in imax dimensions , as are shots of the astronauts floating in their cabins . 
pos	it's a lovely , eerie film that casts an odd , rapt spell . 
neg	overall , the film misses the brilliance of jelinek's novel by some way . it settles for being merely grim . 
pos	one-of-a-kind near-masterpiece . 
pos	sitting in the third row of the imax cinema at sydney's darling harbour , but i sometimes felt as though i was in the tiny two seater plane that carried the giant camera around australia , sweeping and gliding , banking and hovering over some of the most not
neg	if the idea of the white man arriving on foreign shores to show wary natives the true light is abhorrent to you , the simplistic heaven will quite likely be more like hell . 
neg	the drama discloses almost nothing . 
neg	how do you make a movie with depth about a man who lacked any ? on the evidence before us , the answer is clear : not easily and , in the end , not well enough . 
neg	the new film of anton chekhov's the cherry orchard puts the 'ick' in 'classic . '
neg	could as easily have been called 'under siege 3 : in alcatraz' . . . a cinematic corpse that never springs to life . 
pos	there seem to be two reactions to dark city .  you either love it or you are unimpressed .  count me as a " love it . "  as good as the crow and spawn are , dark city is better .  where the former two have a specific comic-book following , the latter is an original work with the potential for broader appeal .  it has a similar look to the others , but dark city is much more thoughtful and much less violent .  not clever or complex , the story is still fascinating , like a selection from the twilight zone .  a man ( rufus sewell ) is awakened in his bathtub by a man with a syringe .  surprised , the attacker runs off .  the dazed man gets out of the tub and finds a woman's body in the room .  a mysterious caller warns him to leave the apartment immediately , so he packs some clothes and leaves , never sure why he's leaving or what he's fleeing .  ghoulish figures in long coats recognize the man and chase him through the dark city , hounding him like figures in a nightmare .  an odd blast of willpower allows the man to dream himself free from his pursuers long enough to check his i . d .  the amnesiac learns that he is not dreaming and that his name is john murdoch .  now if only he could remember the rest of his life . . . .  dark city is good on many levels .  first , the look of the movie is excellent .  give credit to production designers george liddle and patrick tatopolous for creating a coherent look from diverse elements .  there are visual elements from the american 1920s-60s , mixed with dickens-era urban industrial elements .  it is all pulled together in a sad , dark look reminiscent of the diner in edward hopper's painting , nighthawks .  proyas' use of models gives an appropriately eerie unreality to the film's world ( for not only does the audience see the city a model , but so do the ghouls ) .  the look is like a cross between tim burton's batman and the bleak animation of the brothers quay .  second , the editing of the film is good .  the pacing is on track , and the plot is revealed , the " amnesia " explained , in satisfying increments .  also , the stylized editing within each scene gives the movie a tense , caffeinated look .  third , the special effects are well used .  they look good , but more importantly , the right effects are used for the right job .  one example stands out in my mind : the coated figures who haunt the city can attack telekinetically .  a simple ripple effect is used .  a more showy effect could have been chosen , but then it would have just been gratuitous .  restraint was shown where necessary , letting the more critical effects look more impressive .  finally , like gattaca , dark city spends a just a little effort striving for mythical significance .  unlike gattaca , the story is just open-ended and non-literal enough to be successful .  john murdoch's recovery from amnesia is tied to the passing of the night , and the hopeful coming of the dawn .  his struggle with amnesia is both figuratively and literally the struggle of all mankind ( at least in his world ) .  when we finally see the big picture of the movie's world , it is as mysterious as the iroquois image of the world being carried on the back of a giant turtle .  a few minor flaws keep me from giving this movie the same perfect score roger ebert gave , but i do strongly recommend it , for its look , its pace , its story , and its timelessness .  
